PRETTY GOOD EVENING.
&gt;&gt; I NOW CALL TO ORDER THE JUNE
9TH 20 22 HIT HISTORIC ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING.
THE MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA
ZOM MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO
WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO VIA TELEPHONE ONLY TO
SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT 00 NINE NINE
INTERMEETING IID LB NINE SEVEN
EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE FOUR
FIVE ONE FIVE.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA AND THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CITIZEN CHANNEL 16
AT&amp;T CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND
ONLINE AT W W W EIGHT TO GOV.
DOUG FORWARD SLASH WATCH AND
MISS THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROYAL COMMISSIONER TO
HEAR COMMISSIONER FARNER
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER EVERSON HERE,
COMMISSIONER WILLIS HERE,
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN HERE.
COMMISSIONER ROSS ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE A QUORUM RIGHT ITEM
C APPROVAL AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA?
&gt;&gt; NO HEARING AND SEE NO
OBJECTION THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED AS PRESENTED ONTO ITEM
D PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER THE MEETING IID NINE
SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE
FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE CITY STAFF
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER IN ORDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE DO YOU HAVE ANY
CALLERS FOR PUBLIC COMMENT?
WE HAVE ONE
CALLER OR I&apos;M GOING
TO PROVIDE A MEETING
TO
NOT
BECAUSE IT&apos;S
ALL RIGHT.
CALLER FIVE THREE FOUR WHENEVER
YOU&apos;RE READY BEGINNING.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS TOM CALLING FROM
PHILADELPHIA STREET IN LOWER
I&apos;M IN ANN ARBOR.
I&apos;M ABOUT OR I AM I DID I AM
PAYING ATTENTION TO TWO TWENTY
FOUR THOUSAND BUT THAT WILL BE
ON THE AGENDA LATER COMPLIMENTS
YOU ALL ON YOUR DELIBERATIONS.
THE LAST MEETING REGARDING THAT
IDEA AND IN GENERAL AND ALSO
COMPLIMENT THAT OF DR. BODY
ABOUT THE BEST JOB OF ANY
OF THE COMMISSION COMMITTEES
THAT I PAY ATTENTION TO WHICH
ARE YOU IN CRITICAL CONDITION?
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS ENERGY
COMMISSION, ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION.
I&apos;M ONE OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO
LIKE TO GO TO HAVING A MEETING
.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY WANT TO COMPLIMENT
YOU.
THERE ARE CURIOUS WHERE YOU ARE
SUPPOSED TO HAVE YOU TO BASED
ON AND YOUR JUDGMENTS
OF PROJECT BASED ON THOSE
CRITERIA AND THOSE ARE WELL
LAID OUT FOR YOU BY YOUR STAFF
AND YOU DO A REALLY GOOD JOB.
REPUBLICANS EXERCISE PICKING
VARIOUS CRITERIA DELIBERATIONS
AND IT IS VERY IMPORTANT I
THINK THAT LEAVING THE JOB
RIGHT NOW WELL MAYBE THEY USED
TO AND THEN GOT ON TRACK AND
THEY&apos;RE BACK ON TRACK IN MY
OPINION.
I THINK SOME OF THE OTHER
BODIES ARE NOT DOING A GOOD JOB
AND THAT&apos;S CALLED PRETTY
SERIOUS PROBLEMS IN MY OPINION.
SO I REALLY WANT TO COMPLIMENT
YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR DOING YOUR JOB
WELL HAVE A GOOD EVENING AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO TONIGHT&apos;S
OPERATION.
THANK YOU, MR. STUHLBARG.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE PUBLIC
COMMENT
?
&gt;&gt; NO, THAT&apos;S IT.
OK, I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
COMMENT PORTION OF THIS MEETING
AND MOVE ON TO ITEM IX
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
WE HAVE ONE ITEM FOR TWENTY TWO
TWENTY FOUR SAOTOME THATCHERS
WORKING ON BRINGING UP THE
REPORT
ONE IN SECOND PLACE.
I&apos;M SORRY
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS A RETURNING ITEM.
I&apos;M OPENING IT HERE ON THE
SCREEN AND I&apos;M GOING TO GET THE
PROJECT ARCHITECT RUN YOU
THROUGH THE CHANGES THAT WERE
MADE SINCE IT IS A RETURNING
ITEM.
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS A LITTLE
BIT TODAY ON THE PHONE AND
THERE WERE SOME MODIFICATIONS
MADE AND HE&apos;S GOING TO TELL ME
WHERE TO WHERE TO DRIVE HERE
WITHIN HIS RESUBMISSION.
&gt;&gt; AND JUST AS SOON AS I GET ON
FULL SCREEN HERE OK, THAT LOOKS
GOOD.
NOW DO WE HAVE DAVID PROMOTED
INTO THE MEETING?
LET&apos;S FIND OUT AREAS AND WANT
MAKE MAKE A LITTLE BIGGER THE I
CAN&apos;T MAKE IT HERE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M AFRAID THAT EVERYONE
HERE.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, DAVID.
&gt;&gt; I AGREE WITH DAVID NIMES ONE
HUNDRED OR STATE STREET ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANKS FOR YOUR TIME.
CONSIDERATION AGAIN ON THIS
PROJECT.
I&apos;LL TRY TO BE BRIEF WITH
RESPECT TO THE CONSIDERATIONS
ALREADY PROVIDED BY THIS
COMMITTEE THROUGH OUR PREVIOUS
SESSION, THE INTENT OF THE
PROPOSAL HAS BEEN VIRTUALLY THE
SAME SINCE THE BEGINNING.
THE CONSTRUCTION OF TWO FLOORS
ABOVE THE CURRENT ONE STOREY
BUILDING RECREATING THE MASSIVE
HISTORICALLY EXISTED ON THE
SITE SINCE IT WAS FIRST
DEVELOPED IN 1854.
ABOVE THAT A NEW FOURTH LEVEL
WOULD BE ADDED RECESSED TO FULL
STRUCTURAL FROM THE MAIN STREET
LIBERTY STREET FACADE.
THE PROPOSAL IS ALSO SOUGHT TO
BRING THE SITE AND STRUCTURE
INTO COMPLIANCE WITH CITY
GUIDELINES ORDINANCES,
OBJECTIVES OF THE MASTER PLAN
AND SUSTAINABILITY GOALS LAID
OUT IN THE EIGHT ZERO PLAN.
THIS PROJECT HAS SEEN VARIOUS
TREATMENTS TO THESE FLOORS
THROUGH OUR SESSIONS BUT THE
UNDERLYING INTENT HAS BEEN THE
SAME GROWING ONLY TO INVOLVE
THE RESTORATION OF THE ARBETER
FACADE APPLIED ON TOP OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING WALLS AND
CONINGHAM DRUGS RENOVATED IN
NINETEEN FORTY TWO TO QUICKLY
HIGHLIGHT THE ALTERATION SINCE
OUR LAST MEETING JILL WAS
ATTEMPTED MAYBE PAGE NINETEEN.
WE&apos;LL COME BACK TO THESE
RENDERINGS.
I TRY TO ORDER THESE AS
LOGICALLY AS I THOUGHT THE
PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS TO THE
TWO TO FOUR SOUTHMEAD
STOREFRONT HAVE BEEN REMOVED
FROM THE PROJECT.
YOU CAN SEE HERE THE RED DASH
LINE THE ENTRY FOR WHERE THE
ELEVATOR SERVICE WOULD BE FOR
THE UPPER STORIES HAS BEEN
MOVED TO BE SERVICED FROM A
LOBBY BASED ON THE NEW
STOREFRONT LIBRARY THAT IS A
STOREFRONT SO CONSISTENT WITH
THE PREVIOUS PROPOSAL BUT THAT
ALLOWS THE EXISTING STOREFRONT
ON TWO TO FOUR MAIN THAT 17
FOOT DEEP STOREFRONT TO REMAIN
UNTOUCHED AND ALSO REMAIN AS A
COMMERCIAL ENTRY AS IT
HISTORICALLY WAS PREVIOUSLY.
JUST TOUCH ON TWO ITEMS THE
UPPER FLOOR VOLUMES I THINK MAY
BE JUMPING TO PAGE FOURTEEN
WOULD WOULD DO THIS BEST TO
START WE HAVE DECREASED THE
FLOOR THE FLOOR TO FLOOR HEIGHT
OR THE OVERALL HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING BY ABOUT TWO FEET
EIGHT INCHES.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO SOME
THINGS MECHANICALLY TO MAKE
THAT WORK BUT WE THINK WE CAN
PULL IT OFF AND THIS IS ABOUT
KIND OF ALIGNING THE BUILDING
WITH THE HISTORIC SCALE OF THE
DISTRICT SO YOU CAN SEE WHERE
WE&apos;RE, YOU KNOW, PICKING UP THE
VISUAL LINES FROM WINDOWS FROM
THE FROM THE SURROUNDING
BUILDING IN THE SLIDE IF YOU
JUMP TO SLIDES 23 AND 24 MAYBE
SPECIFICALLY TWENTY FOUR WE CAN
TALK ABOUT THE UPPER CORNICE
DETAILING THAT HAS BEEN ALTERED
.
SO THAT IS SET BACK FURTHER
FROM A SORRY TWENTY THREE YOU
CAN SEE SO WE HAVE THE SAME SET
BACKS AT THE UPPER WALL FACADE
WHERE WHERE IT MEETS THE LOWER
LEVEL.
YEAH WE&apos;RE JILL&apos;S CURSOR IS
DIRECTLY ABOVE THAT IS A
DETAILED SHOWING HOW A CORNICE
WILL SIT FOR THE I SHOULD SAY
CORNICE BUT THE TOP PEDIMENT
OF THE WALL WILL SET ANOTHER 11
INCHES BACK.
SO WE&apos;RE GETTING ABOUT ALMOST
TWO AND A HALF FEET BACK FROM
THE FROM THE ACTUAL FACADE
WHERE THE METAL CLADDING IS
GOING TO GO ON THOSE ELEVATIONS
AND THAT SPECIFICALLY IS ABOUT
A LINE IN SOME OF THE DETAILING
WITH THE MASS OF THE LOWER
OF THE LOWER VOLUME.
SO WE JUMP TO PAGE FEATURE FOR
THE NEXT PAGE.
TWENTY FOURRE&apos;S TWO
DIMENSIONS CALLED OFF OVER
HERE.
THERE&apos;S THE FIRST FLOOR WHICH
WHILE IT&apos;S A ONE STOREY
BUILDING IT&apos;S A VERY TALL ONE
STOREY BUILDING.
SO WE HAVE TWO FEET FOUR INCHES
AT ITS HIGHEST POINT TO ITS
CORNICE AS IT EXISTS TODAY FROM
GRADE LEVEL AND WITH THE DETAIL
PROPOSING IN THIS FIRST IN THIS
MODIFICATION WE&apos;D BE AT TWENTY
ONE FEET EIGHT INCHES TO THE
TOP WHERE THAT CORNICE HAPPENS
AND THEN AN ADDITIONAL ELEVEN
INCH RECESS TO THE WALL
DEFINING THE VOLUME STRUCTURE
ABOVE THAT TO TRY TO BRING THIS
MORE INTO ALIGNMENT WITH THE
SCALE OF THE ONE STORY BELOW IT
.
&gt;&gt; IF WE WANT TO JUMP BACK TO
PAGE THIRTEEN WE HAVE MODIFIED
THE CORNER.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE SOME COMMENTARY
FOR THE LAST MEETING OF THE THE
KIND OF TOO MUCH GLASS THE
CORNER.
SO WE WE FOLDED SOME OF THE
METAL AXTON PILLARS AROUND AND
REDUCED THAT AMOUNT OF GLAZING
WHICH WE THOUGHT HELPED LEND
ITSELF TO A MORE RHYTHMIC
CADENCE OF THE UPPER STORIES
THAT TOOK AWAY LAST VISUAL
INTEREST FROM IT FROM THE FIRST
FLOOR IN THE SAME IMAGE AND ANY
OF THE RENDERINGS WE CAN SEE
THAT WE&apos;VE REVISED THE UPPER
FLOOR CLADDING COLOR AND THAT
IS IT TO BETTER ALIGN THE
VOLUME ON THE UPPER LEVEL WITH
THE BRICK TONES OF THE
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS AND THEN
MAYBE JUMP ONE PICTURE AHEAD.
I THINK MAYBE TO WE CAN SEE
THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S A BLACK
REVEAL AND THIS WAS OUTLINED WE
HAVE THIS REVEAL LAST TIME BUT
WE DID NOT HIGHLIGHT IT&apos;S A
DIFFERENT COLOR.
IT WAS THE SAME COLOR IS WHAT
IS NOW THE COPPER STONE PANELS
UP ABOVE.
SO THERE IS A MORE
DISTINGUISHED REVEAL BETWEEN
WHAT IS THE HISTORIC ONE STOREY
PORTION OF THE BUILDING AND THE
NEW ADDITIONS.
SO THOSE ARE REALLY THE MAJOR
CHANGES FROM FROM THE PREVIOUS
SUBMISSION I WANTED TO TAKE IF
I IF I CAN HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO
TO RUN THROUGH SOME DISCUSSION
I&apos;M PRESERVATION 314.
I KNOW WE SPENT SOME TIME
TALKING ABOUT THAT SPECIFICALLY
AS IT RELATED TO ONE STORY
BUILDING AND ROOFTOP EDITIONS
OF THE BRIEF THE BRIEF
STATEMENT I WANT TO READ
THROUGH A WHOLE BUNCH STUFF SO
I JUST KIND OF HAVE A FEW
EXCERPTS AND EXAMPLES I WANT TO
SAY THIS IS A VERY HISTORIC
BUILDING IS DIFFERENT IN EACH
REHABILITATION PROJECT IS
UNIQUE AND THEREFORE THE
GUIDANCE OFFERED HERE IS NOT
SPECIFIC THE GENERAL SO THAT IT
CAN BE APPLIED TO A WIDE
VARIETY OF BUILDING TYPES AND
SITUATIONS TO ASSIST AND TO
ASSIST IN INTERPRETING HIS
GUIDANCE.
ILLUSTRATIONS WERE PROVIDED TO
THE NEW EDITIONS ONE SUCH
EDITION IN THE BRIEF FIGURE
NINETEEN.
I&apos;M SURE ALL THESE PEOPLE HAVE
REVIEWED IT SO I DON&apos;T WANT TO
BELEAGUER IT BUT THAT FIGURE IS
REFERENCING I THINK A ROUGHLY
EIGHT STORY DEPARTMENT STORE
THAT HAD TWO FLOORS ADDED TO IT
DURING A REBUILD PHASE AND
THOSE TWO STORIES WERE DEEMED
TO NOT BE CONSISTENT, DID NOT
MEET THE STANDARDS BUT
SPECIFICALLY THEY WERE DEEMED
TO NOT MEET THE STANDARDS
BECAUSE IT GAVE THE BUILDING IT
APPEARS IT NEVER HAD
HISTORICALLY.
BUT THIS BUILDING THESE WALLS,
THE FOUNDATIONS THAT WERE
BUILDING ON OUR THREE STOREY
BUILDING HISTORICALLY PREVIOUS
TO THE NINETEEN FORTY TWO
RENOVATION BY CUNNINGHAMS IT
WAS A THREE STOREY BUILDING.
SO WE DON&apos;T THINK THAT WE ARE
MIS ALIGNING ANYTHING ABOUT THE
OVERARCHING DISTRICT THROUGH
THIS DEVELOPMENT.
THE BRIEF SPECIFICALLY TALKS TO
RELATING TO DENSELY BUILT
ENVIRONMENTS AND SPACES DESPITE
THE FACT THAT IN MOST CASES IT
IS RECOMMENDED THAT THE NEW
EDITION BE ATTACHED TO
SECONDARY ELEVATION.
SOMETIMES IT IS NOT POSSIBLE IN
OTHER INSTANCES PARTICULARLY IN
URBAN AREAS WHICH WE ARE THERE
MAY BE NO OTHER PLACE BUT
ADJACENT TO THE PRIMARY FACADE
TO LOCATE IN ADDITION NEEDED
FOR THE NEW USE THE HEIGHT AND
SETBACK FROM THE STREET SHOULD
GENERALLY BE CONSISTENT WITH
THOSE OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING
AND OTHER SURROUNDING BUILDINGS
IN THE DISTRICT.
THUS IN MOST URBAN COMMERCIAL
AREAS THIS EDITION SHOULD NOT
BE SET BACK FROM THE FACADE
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING A TYPE
URBAN SETTING.
WE SOMETIMES EVEN ACCOMMODATE A
LARGER EDITION.
THE PRIMARY ELEVATION IS
DESIGNED TO GIVE THE APPEARANCE
OF SEVERAL BUILDINGS BY
BREAKING UP THE FACADE OF THE
ELEMENTS THAT ARE CONSISTENT
WITH THE SCALE HISTORIC
BUILDING IN THE ADJACENT
BUILDINGS.
WE&apos;RE REALLY STRIVING TO DO
THIS WITH SOME OF THESE
DETAILED CHANGES AND THAT IN
PARTICULAR IS
IN LINE WITH
COMMENTS WE RECEIVED FROM THE
DC.
SO YOU SEE HERE THIS ELEVATION
THE THREE FACADES BROKEN UP.
THAT WAS SOMETHING I THINK
SPECIFICALLY WAS CITED IN OUR
EARLY DELIBERATIONS AND OUR
WORKING SESSIONS.
LASTLY, THE BRIEF STATES THAT
IN ADDITION USED TO BE DESIGNED
TO BE COMPATIBLE.
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING DOES MEET THE
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION,
PARTICULARLY STANDARDS NINE AND
10 STANDARD OR NINE.
THE NEW ADDITIONS EXTERIOR
ALTERATIONS ARE RELATED.
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE NOT DOING THAT.
THE NEW WORK SHOULD BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH A
MASSIVE SIZE AND SCALE AN
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY BY THE NEW
ADDITIONS A GARDEN, NO NEW
ADDITIONS AND ADJACENT RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL
UNDERTAKE IN SUCH A MANNER THAT
IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY,
THE HISTORIC PROPERTY AND SOME
PRIVATE WOULD BE UNIMPAIRED.
WE ARE STILL WE HAVE LOWERED
THE BUILDING PREVIOUSLY THE
SECOND WHERE WE WERE PROPOSING
WAS OVER THE EXISTING ROOF
OF WHAT EXISTS TODAY.
THE SECOND FLOOR WILL STILL BE
OVER THE EXISTING SECOND FLOOR
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; SO WHILE THE ROOF WILL NEED
TO BE REMOVED TO ACCOMMODATE
THIS ADDITION, THE THE SECOND
FLOOR THAT REALLY DEFINES THE
INTERIOR SPACE WILL SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO BE MAINTAINED.
WE STRONGLY FEEL THAT WE&apos;RE
ALIGNED WITH BOTH OF THESE
GOALS MET AND THE STANDARDS
OF REHABILITATION AND WE MAY
HAVE NOT OUR MEETING THE LETTER
OF EVERY INTENT WE FEEL THE
PROPOSAL IS ALIGNED WITH THE
GOALS OF THE HGC PRESERVING AND
EVEN ENHANCING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER BUILDING SPECIFICALLY
THROUGH THE FACADE RENOVATION
AND RESTORATION THAT IS
PROPOSED ON THE ONE STOREY.
AND THE PROPOSAL FURTHER BUILDS
ON AN ENHANCEMENT BY LIGHTING
THE SITE THE CITY&apos;S GOALS FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING FURTHER TO
ADD?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T BUT I&apos;M HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT
HAVE.
OK, WAS THERE A REVIEW
COMMITTEE FOR THIS?
&gt;&gt; WE DIDN&apos;T THEY DIDN&apos;T STOP
THERE NOW RIGHT NOW UN
COMMISSIONERS DO YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
COMMISSIONER DIRECTLY?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE ONE QUESTION FOR THE
APPLICANT IF YOU COULD DAVID
EXPLAIN AGAIN WHAT IS THE PIECE
THAT YOU&apos;RE CALLING IT A HYPHEN
IT YOU KNOW I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S LIKE IT LOOKS LIKE A
BLACK LINE.
I&apos;M RENDERINGS.
WHAT EXACTLY IS THAT ON A
BUILDING?
&gt;&gt; SO THE GOAL THERE WHAT WE
THINK WE CAN DO IS HAVE THE
STEEL CHANNEL INSERTED THAT
WILL PROVIDE SOME SUPPORT FOR
THE WALL UP ABOVE.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO OVERLAP WHERE
THE BACKUP STRUCTURE IS AND
WHERE THE OUTSIDE FACE OF THE
BUILDING IS SO WE CAN CREATE A
SHADOW REVEAL.
PREVIOUSLY WE HAD RELIED ON
SHADOW TO DO THAT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT WAS CONVEYED
WELL SO HERE IT LITERALLY IS A
BLACK LINE I BELIEVE IT&apos;S PAGE
TWENTY THREE THAT HAS A BLOW UP
DETAIL IF YOU ZOOM WE&apos;RE AT THE
BOTTOM EDGE MOVED.
YES RIGHT THERE WE&apos;RE SAYS FOUR
AND THREE AND NINE AND A HALF
OVER TO THE LEFT WHERE THE
DIMENSIONS WERE I THINK THERE&apos;S
A BLOW UP SECTION UP IN THE
LOWER LEFT CORNER RIGHT THERE
OK YEAH SO YOU SEE THE LITTLE
PROFILE, YOU SEE THE EXISTING
TOP PARAPET AND ON THE PROFILE
THEY&apos;LL BE A STEEL CHANNEL
INSERTED AND WE STILL HAVE TO
REFINE YOU KNOW EXACTLY HOW
THAT SITS.
WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO MOVE IT
BACK FURTHER.
THAT WOULD BE THE GOAL TO
CREATE THAT SHADOWVILLE EDGE
AND LET THE THE THE WALL UP
ABOVE YOU KNOW, SIT OUT CLOSER
TO THE STREET.
BUT BUT ALSO HAVE MORE OF A GAP
RIGHT WHERE IT MEETS THE
BUILDING.
SO TO CREATE AS MUCH OF A
HYPHEN AS WE COULD AS KIND
OF PER THE DIRECTIVE OF THE
OF THE BRIEF THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT
?
I WILL NOT OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT TWO TWENTY FOUR
S MAIN PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE
MADE BY CALLING EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INDURAIN MEETING
NINETY NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX
FOUR ZERO ONE FOUR FIVE ONE
FIVE IN ORDER TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND AFTER DIALING
INTO THE MEETING PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY CALLERS FOR
THIS PUBLIC AREA OK I WILL NOW
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS APPLICATION PAPERS?
COMMISSIONER, COME.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS JUST ONE EXAMPLE OR IN
THE LAST ONE YEAR I THINK
THERE&apos;S YOU KNOW, THE THREE
PAGE REPORT WITH THE NEWS THAT
EACH ONE OF THE ONE IS YEAH,
THAT&apos;S NICE.
I KNEW THAT I WOULD GET MY
MICROPHONE ON.
&gt;&gt; I MOVE THAT HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT TWO
TWENTY FOUR AND TWO TWENTY SIX
S MAIN STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
THREE ADDITIONAL FLOORS TO THE
BUILDING INSTALL REPLICA METAL
CLADDING ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND
INSTALL A NEW STOREFRONT AT THE
WEST END OF THE BUILDING ON THE
S ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE SURROUNDING RESOURCES AND
MEETS THE AND OVERSTORED
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL ADDITIONS AND OR ADDITIONS
TO COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TWO THREE, FOUR,
FIVE, SIX, NINE AND TEN.
&gt;&gt; AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS WINDOWS AND DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING CIRCLE
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER RACHLIN
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION
IS WHERE DO WE START?
UM THERE IS NO DISCUSSION LEFT
.
YES.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION?
SURE.
BUT DO YOU WANT TO DISCUSS
FIRST?
UM I THINK FIRST I APPRECIATE
THE CONSTANT EFFORTS TO, YOU
KNOW, MOVE CLOSER TO THE C
GUIDELINES.
I APPRECIATE THE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION THE PRESERVATION
BRIEF THAT WAS THAT UM MR
NOONAN STATED REGARDING YOU
KNOW, DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENTS.
IT IS THERE ARE UNIQUE
CONDITIONS AND GUIDELINES UM, I
JUST KIND OF WANTED TO MAYBE
RUN THROUGH AS A COMMISSION
SOME OF THE YOU KNOW, THE
SPECIFIC GUIDELINES THAT WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT TO YOU KNOW, REALLY
DELIBERATE THIS I THINK
EFFICIENTLY.
UM, SO I WAS TRYING TO PULL UP
THOSE GUIDELINES SO THAT&apos;S KIND
OF WHERE I STAND RIGHT NOW.
SO IF ANYBODY ELSE HAS ANYTHING
RIGHT AWAY THEY&apos;D LIKE TO
PLEASE DO SO OTHERWISE I&apos;LL
LOOK FOR THOSE.
SURE I CAN ADD SOMETHING WHILE
YOU ARE SURE.
OK, SO I GUESS JUST JUST RIGHT
OFF THE BAT AS WELL I&apos;D LIKE TO
TO SAY WHAT I THINK IS IMPROVED
THAT I SEE AND I WOULD SAY THAT
ALL OF THE CHANGES THAT WERE
MADE TO THE THE HISTORIC PART
OF THE PROJECT I THINK ARE
POSITIVE AT LEAST THE ONES THAT
I&apos;M SEEING THAT IN PARTICULAR
THAT THE WAY THAT THE THEY&apos;RE
PROPOSING TO PRESERVE THE THE
HISTORIC STOREFRONT ON MAIN
STREET THAT SEEMS REALLY
POSITIVE AS WELL AS ALLOWING
THAT TO BE A FUNCTIONAL
COMMERCIAL SPACE AND THEN
HAVING THE OCCUPANTS ENTER AND
LIBERTY I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S A
REALLY GOOD CHANGE
.
LET&apos;S SEE
SO I THINK THE
CHANGES THAT WERE MADE TO THE
ADDITIONS UM WELL I THINK THAT
THEY ARE CLEARLY A RESULT
OF LISTENING TO THE TWO TO THE
COMMISSION HERE.
I THINK THAT THERE WERE OTHER
COMMENTS THAT MAYBE THAT
WEREN&apos;T WHERE IT HURTS SO WELL
.
BUT YOU KNOW, THE CHANGES I I
GUESS THE CHANGES ARE MOVING IN
A DIRECTION BUT I
THINK THAT
THE ISSUE IS LIKE THEY ARE
BEING MADE TO A PROPOSAL THAT
IS I DON&apos;T KNOW IT&apos;S LIKE WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT LIKE THE PHOTO
FINISH ON A SPRINT BUT THERE
WAS A FALSE START ANYWAY OR
SOMETHING SO WE&apos;RE ARGUING
ABOUT THE PHOTO FINISH BUT THE
THE RACE NEVER REALLY GOT OFF
THE BLOCKS OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT IF THAT&apos;S A DECENT OFFER.
BUT SO IT&apos;S HARD TO COMMENT ON
THE DETAILS OF IT.
BUT I GUESS WHAT I SEE WHAT I
SEE HERE KIND OF BIG PICTURE IS
THAT WE&apos;RE KIND OF STUCK
BETWEEN TWO PROPOSALS AND SO
WE&apos;VE HAD THIS ALL THIS HISTORY
HERE ON THIS CORNER AND THERE
IS THERE IS A PART OF HISTORY
WHERE THERE WAS A THREE STORY
BUILDING HERE AND THAT NASSE
OF THREE STORIES HAS SOME
HISTORIC PRECEDENT THERE AND
THEN WE HAVE A POINT IN TIME
WHERE IT&apos;S ONE STORY AND THAT&apos;S
WHAT WE HAVE HERE TODAY.
AND SO WHEN YOU WHEN WE SAY
WHEN THE APPLICANT SAYS THAT
THE ONE STORY PORTION IS A
HISTORIC PORTION AND THEY ARE
RESTORING A ONE STOREY BUILDING
AND THEN ADDING AN ADDITION TO
IT, IT&apos;S THAT&apos;S THE PROJECT.
IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S NOT A THREE
STORY BUILDING THAT&apos;S BEING
BROUGHT BACK OR SOMETHING.
WE&apos;VE GOT EITHER A ONE STORY
EITHER THE APPLICANT HAVE SAID
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE RESTORING THE THREE
STOREY BUILDING OR RESTORING
THE ONE STOREY BUILDING.
WHICHEVER ROUTE THE APPLICANT
CHOSE, THEY WOULD HAVE TO THEN
FOLLOW THE STANDARD ALL THE WAY
IN EITHER SITUATION.
BUT I FEEL LIKE THIS PROPOSAL
KIND OF MESHES THE TWO IDEAS
TOGETHER INTO SOMETHING THAT
WHEN YOU HAVE A CLOSE READING
OF THE STANDARDS IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
HAVING A HARD TIME MEETING ALL
OF THEM.
IT DOES A REALLY GOOD JOB
MEETING SOME OF THEM.
AND SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S KIND
OF WHERE I I GUESS LIKE THE BIG
ONES THAT IT&apos;S NOT HITTING FOR
ME ARE THE THERE&apos;S A TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY FOUR FLOOR AREA
INCREASE THE FACT THAT IT&apos;S AN
ADDITIONAL TWO AND THE FACT IS
THAT A ROOFTOP EDITION PUTS IT
IN THIS REALLY SPECIFIC
CATEGORY WHERE WE&apos;RE THEN IT&apos;S
NOT HITTING SEVERAL ITEMS THAT
STAFF STIPULATED THERE IF YOU
WANT TO SEE THEM ALL BUT IT&apos;S
NOT HITTING SEVERAL OF THE THE
ROOFTOP ADDITIONS STANDARDS AND
AND WE&apos;RE NOT REALLY PICKING
AND CHOOSING WHICH STANDARDS
THE REALLY WHAT WE HAVE TO MEET
ALL THE STANDARDS.
SO I GUESS IN SUMMARY I FEEL
LIKE THIS PROJECT IS SORT
OF MASHING TWO DIFFERENT IDEAS
INTO ONE IDEA AND SO IT&apos;S NOT
MEETING EITHER CRITERIA.
THANK YOU, MR ROCHLIN.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT WAS ACTUALLY A
PRETTY THAT HELPED CLARIFY I
THINK SOME OF MY THINKING ON
THE THE MESHING OF A
RESTORATION OF ONE AND IN
ADDITION ON TOP OF THAT AND I
THINK I AGREE THAT THERE ARE I
THINK I JUST CLOSED MY DOCUMENT
THAT I HAD OPENED A NUMBER
OF UM GUIDELINES THAT ARE BEING
MET LIKE I THINK THAT THE
MATERIALS ARE COMPATIBLE.
&gt;&gt; THE NEW IS DISTINGUISHED
FROM THE OLD UM BUT THE ONES
THAT YOU OUTLINED THAT THE ROOF
THE FLOOR AREA IS FAR GREATER
THAN THE ACTUAL YOU KNOW,
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
FOOTPRINT.
UM, IT IS A ROOFTOP EDITION
WHICH IS REALLY JUST A FULL ON
TWO AND A HALF STOREY EDITION.
UM, WE&apos;RE IN THE REALM OF LIKE
THINGS IT SEEMS LIKE HALF
OF THE GUIDELINES ARE BEING MET
AND HALF OF THEM ARE NOT.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A I THINK IT&apos;S
A TRICKY SITUATION AND THEN
IT&apos;S NOT TO THERE&apos;S A NUMBER
OF THEM THAT THERE&apos;S ALMOST TOO
MANY THAT AREN&apos;T AREN&apos;T MET
THAT IT IT GOES BEYOND YOU
KNOW, I THINK A LEVEL OF THAT
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; IT COMFORTABLY MEETS ALL
OF THE GUIDELINES.
UM, ANY OTHER COMMENTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS?
WELL, I&apos;D AGREE THAT
COMMISSIONER ROCKLANDS
STATEMENTS SORT OF MESHED FOR
ME.
WHAT WAS MAKING ME
UNCOMFORTABLE ABOUT THE DESIGN
IS THIS RESTORATION OF ONE
HISTORIC AREA AND THEN THE
ADDITIONS THAT REFERENCES THE
OTHER ONE AND YOU KNOW, MANY
OTHER COMMENTS GO AHEAD.
NOT NOT TO BE DOWN TOO MUCH BUT
I DID FIND SOME LANGUAGE IN THE
PRESERVATION BRIEF THAT I
THOUGHT WAS RELEVANT TO THIS
RECENT COMMENT AND THE I THINK
WHAT WE&apos;RE ALL WE&apos;VE ALL BEEN
STRUGGLING WITH HERE DEBATING
ABOUT THERE&apos;S A SECTION TALKING
ABOUT PRESERVING HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
I&apos;LL TRY TO GET THROUGH THIS
MORE QUICKLY.
THE GOAL OF COURSE IS A NEW
ADDITION THAT PRESERVES THE
BUILDINGS.
THE STAR CHARACTER THE STAR
CHARACTER OF EACH BUILDING MAY
BE DIFFERENT BUT THE
METHODOLOGY OF ESTABLISHING IT
REMAINS THE SAME KNOWING THE
USES AND FUNCTIONS OF A
BUILDING HAS SERVED OVER TIME
WILL ASSIST IN MAKING WHAT IS
ESSENTIALLY A PHYSICAL
EVALUATION.
BUT WHILE WRITTEN AND PICTORIAL
DOCUMENTATION CAN PROVIDE A
FRAMEWORK FOR ESTABLISHING THE
BUILDING&apos;S HISTORY TO A LARGE
EXTENT THE HISTORIC CHARACTERS
EMBODIED IN THE PHYSICAL
ASPECTS OF THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ITSELF SHAPE MATERIAL
FEATURE NO WHAT WHAT&apos;S EXISTING
THAT&apos;S IT IS IMPORTANT TO
IDENTIFY THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
BEFORE MAKING DECISIONS ABOUT
THE EXTENT OR LIMITATIONS
OF CHANGE THAT CAN BE MADE.
A NEW EDITION SHOULD ALWAYS BE
SUBORDINATE TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
IT SHOULD NOT COMPETE IN SIZE,
SCALE OR DESIGN WITH THE
HISTORIC BUILDING.
IN ADDITION THAT BEARS NO
RELATIONSHIP TO THE PROPORTIONS
AND MASSING OF THE HISTORIC
BUILDING IN OTHER WORDS ONE
THAT OVERPOWERS THE HISTORIC
FORM AND CHANGES THE SCALE WILL
USUALLY COMPROMISE THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER AS WELL THE THE
APPROPRIATE SIZE FOR A NEW
ADDITION VARIES FROM BUILDING
TO BUILDING.
IT COULD NEVER BE STATED IN A
SQUARE OR CUBIC FOOTAGE RATIO
BUT THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS
EXISTING PROPORTIONS SITE AND
SETTING CAN HELP SET SOME
GENERAL PARAMETERS FOR
ENLARGEMENT.
I THINK THAT&apos;S VERY HELPFUL FOR
ME AT LEAST FOR SOME OF THE
THINGS ON THIS CORNER.
THERE&apos;S A THREE STOREY BUILDING
AND THEY CAME TO THREE WORDS
AND THEY CAME TO THE COMMISSION
AND A LOT OF THE THINGS WE WERE
DISCUSSING WAS NEVER DISCUSSED
IN OUR WORK SESSION AND YOU
KNOW, WE&apos;RE COMPLAINING ABOUT
EACH ONE OF THOSE WORK
SESSIONS.
WE DID HAVE A THREE STORY
BUILDING AND AND ON THAT CORNER
THE REST OF THE STORIES WERE
THREE STORIES ALL FALL DOWN THE
BLOCK AND THEN WAS THERE WE PUT
UP A NEW BUILDING WHICH IS
THREE STORIES IN THE MIDDLE
OF A NEW BUILDING AND ACROSS
THE STREET WE ALSO ADDED
STORIES TO BUILDING.
I&apos;M AT THE POINT WHERE
THEY
CAME TO US IN GOOD FAITH THAT
OUR PROBLEM IS WE HAVE GOOD
FAITH AS WELL.
BUT THE DECISION IS ALWAYS ZERO
.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S THE ANSWER
FOR THIS SITUATION BECAUSE THEY
TRIED AND THEY TRIED QUITE A
BIT TO TRY TO IRON OUT ALL
THESE ITEMS AND THEY SHOWED US
THREE.
THIS IS OUR FOURTH DESIGN
OF THIS BUILDING AND WE WE&apos;VE
TALKED ABOUT BUT IT SEEMS LIKE
WE KEEP MOVING THIS GOALPOST
AND I HAVE WE&apos;VE HAD WORK
SESSIONS BEFORE AND THEY WERE
ABLE TO SOLVE THIS PROBLEM AND
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHY THIS ONE HAS
BECOME SO DIFFICULT.
AND I LOOK AT RUNNING FIT
RUNNING FIT IS THERE WE BEAT
THE APPROVED A THREE STOREY
BUILDING HERE ON THE CORNER
OF LIBERTY AND FOUR DOWN IN THE
MIDDLE OF THAT BLOCK WITH OLD
MONTGOMERY WARD AND WE APPROVED
THAT BUILDING AND THEN ALL OF A
SUDDEN WE COME HERE AND I MEAN
I HAD BEEN ON THIS BOARD A LONG
TIME.
I HAVEN&apos;T SEEN SO MUCH
DIFFICULTY THAT WE HAVE AND
USUALLY WE COME TO THE WORK
SESSION AT LEAST ONE OR TWO
WORKS AND WE SOLVE A PROBLEM.
BUT WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING THIS AND
IF WE TAKE THIS BACK AND THEY
COME BACK AGAIN, I DON&apos;T SEE
HOW WE&apos;RE GOING TO SOLVE THAT
PROBLEM AND GOING FROM ZERO ON
THIS BUILDING.
I MEAN WE DON&apos;T APPROVE IT.
IT&apos;S ZERO.
WE DON&apos;T BUILD ANYTHING AND YOU
HAD ONE WORK SECTIONS TO WORK
SESSIONS WORK SESSION AND IN
FRONT OF THE COMMISSION AND I&apos;M
NOT SURE I&apos;M NOT SURE
WHERE
THEY ASK WHAT WHAT SHOULD WE DO
WITH THIS BUILDING BE APPROVED
AND WE&apos;RE STILL AT ZERO
PROBABLY GOING TO TAKE IT TO A
HIGHER AUTHORITY CITY COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE CAN DO IT HERE
OF LIKE IT&apos;S ALL I HAVE TO SAY
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
DISCUSSION
OTHER ARE WE READY
TO
GO?
&gt;&gt; OH, SORRY BEN.
WE WE HAVE THE PUBLIC HEARING.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO REOPEN?
YES, YES, YES, YES.
COME ON UP.
&gt;&gt; COME ON UP TO THE PODIUM
PLEASE.
IF YOU ARE SORRY YOU HAVE
ANOTHER IN THE BACK A PUBLIC
COMMENT IF YOU CAN JUST STATE
YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
TREPANG.
HELLO.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
MY NAME IS BENJAMIN CURTIS.
I HAD COME INTO THESE MYSELF
THIS EVENING IS ONE OF THE
FAMILY MEMBERS WHOSE SUPPORTING
THIS PROJECT IS MY CASE.
&gt;&gt; YOU DO.
&gt;&gt; I WAS THINKING ABOUT GETTING
A QUICK BIO ABOUT OUR WHOLE
FAMILY IN ANN ARBOR FOR THE
LAST HUNDRED YEARS I DECIDED
WELL WE&apos;LL JUMP PAST SOME
OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; MY FIRST JOB IN ANN ARBOR
WAS AT ABOUT ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
WITH UP IN SILVER CODE ON THE
ROOF OF THIS BUILDING.
SO THIS BUILDING HAS BEEN A
PART OF MY LIFE FOR A LONG TIME
.
MY FAMILY&apos;S DONE A LOT I THINK
TO SUPPORT AND HELP AND BETTER
ANN ARBOR.
MY GRANDFATHER HAD THE CHICKEN
ON THE ROOF RESTAURANT ON MAIN
STREET WHERE JIM BRADY&apos;S IS
RIGHT NOW AFTER WORLD WAR TWO
WE CAME HERE START UP A
RESTAURANT LIKE SO MANY GREEK
AMERICANS AND THEY LIVED RIGHT
ABOVE.
I&apos;M ACTUALLY ON THE SECOND
FLOOR ON THAT ONE APARTMENT IS
WHERE MY FATHER GREW UP WITH
HIS PARENTS AND THEIR
GRANDPARENTS MOVED THERE TOO.
SO THREE GENERATIONS OF GREEKS
AND ONE APARTMENT ON MAIN
STREET AND THEY RAN THE CHICKEN
IN THE OFF FOR A LONG TIME.
MY GRANDFATHER SAVED UP A
LITTLE BIT OF MONEY AND HE
BOUGHT WHAT HE NAMED THE CURTIS
BUILDING WHICH IS NOW WHERE THE
REAL SEAFOOD IS AND EVERYONE
TOLD HIM HE WAS CRAZY IS
WASTING ALL HIS MONEY AND THE
GOOD DAYS AND MAIN STREET WERE
OVER AND MAIN STREET&apos;S GARBAGE.
BUT HE USED TO SAY ONE THING HE
USED TO SAY AS LONG AS THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS
RELEVANT MAIN STREET ANN ARBOR
WILL BE RELEVANT AND WE WORKED
REALLY HARD TO CONTINUE TO MAKE
MAIN STREET BETTER.
I THINK THAT THIS IS A PROJECT
THAT&apos;S LONG OVERDUE FOR US AND
OUR FAMILY.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S THE WALL THAT YOU CAN
SEE THERE NOW FROM TWO TWENTY
USED TO BE AN INTERIOR WALL
FROM THIS BUILDING JUST SIMPLY
BEEN AN INTERIOR WALL, A IF
WE&apos;RE ON OUR OWN PROPERTY.
SO GUESS I FEEL OK TO SPEAK
CRITICALLY ABOUT IT BUT SINCE I
SAW I THINK TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN ANN ARBOR IT&apos;S BEEN AN
EYESORE SINCE I&apos;VE BEEN IN HIGH
SCHOOL.
PEOPLE USED TO ASK ME WHY DON&apos;T
YOU GUYS BUILD SOMETHING ON
THAT BUILDING?
IT&apos;S NOT THE TIMES I READ THE
THE NUNS THERE.
WE DON&apos;T WANT TO SHUT THEM DOWN
BUT IT&apos;S ALWAYS BEEN A
BEAUTIFUL, BEAUTIFUL CORNER AND
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO SAID IT FIRST
BUT I GUESS IT WAS LIKE THEY
SAID AND OUR FAMILIES AND OUR
MAIN STREET LIBERTY IS LIKE A
ANN ARBOR BEAUTIFUL SMILE WITH
MISSING TEETH AND THE NORTHWEST
CORNER.
THAT&apos;S OK.
IT&apos;S JUST HOW IT&apos;S BEEN FOR A
LONG TIME I THINK A LOT
OF DAVID&apos;S POINTS ARE VALID
OF WHERE THE MAPS USED TO BE.
THAT WAS PART OF OUR MASTER
PLAN.
I THINK THIS PROJECT IMPROVES
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
I WOULD NOT SUPPORT IT IF I
FELT IT DETRACTED FROM ANYTHING
ABOUT ANN ARBOR.
I THINK THIS WOULD COMPLETE
THIS BEAUTIFUL CORNER.
I&apos;D VERY MUCH LIKE THE BUILDING
THE FIRST FOUR BUILDINGS THERE
HAS BEEN A PART OF MY LIFE SO
I&apos;M BIASED FOR I.
I THINK THIS CORNER IS THE BEST
CORNER IN MICHIGAN AND WE DON&apos;T
HAVE A LOT OF PROPERTIES.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF NICE
PROPERTIES BUT WE DO OUR BEST
TO MAKE THEM AS BEST AS WE CAN.
I&apos;VE BEEN SHOVELING SNOW SINCE
I WAS A LITTLE KID.
I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MANY HUNDREDS
OF TONS OF SNOW I&apos;VE MOVED OUT
OF ANN ARBOR AND THEN WE&apos;D GO
TO OUR NEIGHBORS NEXT DOOR
ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO.
MY FAMILY IS INSTRUMENTAL IN
CREATING THE BIZ THE DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT ZONE AND
NOW WE HAVE THE HERITAGE GROUP
OF SHOVELS AND CLEANS ALL OUR
SIDEWALKS IN THESE SORTS
OF THINGS.
SO A ALONG THE WAY EACH
GENERATION WE&apos;VE BEEN TRYING TO
DO BETTER IN ANN ARBOR AS WE
GO.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
PROJECT.
I THINK IT MAKES SENSE FOR
WHERE IT&apos;S BEING BUILT.
IT&apos;S ALREADY BEING BUILT ON A
FOUNDATION SO IT&apos;S SOMETHING WE
DON&apos;T HAVE TO DO IN BUILDING
ANY CONSTRUCTION.
IT&apos;S A HUGE RESOURCE AND I WANT
TO MAKE A CARBON NEUTRAL
BUILDING WITH THIS BUILDING.
SO THERE&apos;S BEEN A BIG FOCUS FOR
ME IF WE CAN MAKE EVEN EVEN
THESE CONCRETE OR THE BRICKS,
WE&apos;RE GOING TO MAKE OUT AN ECO
FRIENDLY MATERIAL.
SO FROM THE VERY BEGINNING
OF CONSTRUCTING THIS TO HOW THE
BUILDING OPERATES AND MAINTAINS
I WANT TO HAVE A CARBON NEUTRAL
BUILDING, WE DON&apos;T HAVE A LOT
OF MONEY TO GO BUY OTHER
BUILDINGS AND OR WE HAVE A
FINANCIER WHO IS MOTIVATED IN
PROVING TO THE WORLD AS WELL.
WE THINK THERE&apos;S A FOCAL CORNER
THAT CAN GET SOME ATTENTION
THAT YOU CAN BUILD WITH
SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS AND HAVE
A SUSTAINABLE OPERATION MAKE A
NET TO MAKE A CARBON NEUTRAL
BUILDING AND IF WE CAN DO THIS
AND SHOW OTHER PEOPLE IT CAN
CHANGE HOW CERTAIN CONTRACT IS
CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDERS VIEW
THINGS RIGHT NOW BUILDERS WHO
HAVE BEEN BUSY 30 YEARS THEY&apos;VE
BEEN DOING THE SAME THING FOR
THE THEIR WHOLE CAREER, THE WAY
THEY WERE TAUGHT WHEN THEY WERE
BUILT.
THEY HAVE THE SAME CREWS.
THEY DO THE SAME JOBS AND YOU
HAVE TO IT&apos;S HARD TO GO TO SOME
BUILDER AND SAY HERE&apos;S A BUNCH
OF NEW MATERIALS THEY WANT YOU
TO COMPLETELY LEARN.
YOU INSTALL THEM DIFFERENTLY.
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE
DIFFERENT CREWS COME IN.
IT&apos;S HARD FOR THEM TO CHANGE
THE SCRIPT AND HOW TO BUILD A
BUILDING AND WE WANT TO TRY IT.
WE WANT TO PROVE THAT YOU CAN
DO THIS AND MAYBE EVEN BE A
LITTLE AT THE END IF IN THE END
THIS HAS TO BE PROFITABLE FOR
US, WE WE CAN&apos;T MESS THIS UP
OTHERWISE WE WILL LOSE OUR
BUILDING AND LOSE OUR BUSINESS
.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING OF AN
IDEA TO PROJECT IF IT DOESN&apos;T
GO THEN NO BIG DEAL.
WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS WORK AND
THE ONLY WAY TO MAKE THIS WORK
TO AND WITH OUR FUTURE IN ANN
NEVER REALLY WANTS TO STEP UP
AND ACTUALLY BUILD THE WAY THAT
THEY&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT ABOUT
HAVING NEW BUILDERS COME IN
HERE AND BE SUSTAINABLE
BUILDINGS AND CARBON THAT ZERO
THEY&apos;VE GOT TO WALK TO THE WALL
RIGHT NOW YOU&apos;VE GOT TOLL
BROTHERS HAVING A PLACE IN THE
MARSHLANDS.
IT&apos;S TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE TO ME
VEHEMENTLY AGAINST THAT
PROJECT.
WHATEVER IT&apos;S GOING ON, THEY&apos;RE
BIG BUSINESSES.
WE ARE A VERY SMALL COMPANY
DENHA ABOUT YOUR TIME&apos;S ALMOST
UP SO IF YOU COULD WRAP IT UP
WITH THREE EMPLOYEES THEY&apos;RE
ALL FAMILY MEMBERS.
I THINK IF THERE&apos;S EVER A PLACE
TO BUILD AND HAVE SOME MORE
RESIDENCE DOWNTOWN THAT MAKES
SENSE.
IT&apos;S THIS LOCATION AND WE&apos;RE
GOING TO MAKE IT LOOK NICER.
I WANT TO DO SOMETHING
BEAUTIFUL.
I REALLY WANTED TO DO THE
LIVING GREEN BUILDING.
I WAS WORKING A LOT TO DO THAT.
I UNDERSTAND I GOT SHOT DOWN
COLD BUT WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE HERE TO DO
WHATEVER WE CAN TO MAKE OUR
GENERATION OF ANN ARBOR JUST A
LITTLE BETTER THAN IT WAS
BEFORE AND WE HOPE THAT WE CAN
BUILD SOMETHING FOR A LONG
TIME.
SO THIS PROPERTY WE REALLY
WANTED TO BUILD FOR A WHILE,
IT&apos;S JUST NEVER BEEN THE RIGHT
TIME.
SO I&apos;M ASKING YOU THAT YOU LET
US BUILD THIS STRUCTURE AND IF
YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME,
I WAS OUTSIDE OF THE BUILDING
ON MONDAY FOR I GUESS ANYONE TO
SHOW UP TO TALK ABOUT THE
BUILDING.
SO I MEAN IF THERE&apos;S OTHER
TIMES OR PLACES WHERE ANYONE
WANTS TO GET TOGETHER AND TALK
ABOUT SOME OF THESE THINGS, IS
THERE SOME OF THE DIFFERENCES
THAT YOU&apos;RE DISCUSSING THAT YOU
WANT TO MAKE?
RIGHT.
BUT I&apos;D LIKE TO SAY ONE THING
WHICH IS COMMISSIONER, I
UNDERSTAND YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
MATCHING TWO DIFFERENT THINGS
BUT THAT IS FOR YOUR BENEFIT.
THIS IS JUST AN ADDITION IS TWO
STORY ADDITIONS AND FOR GRAVY
ON TOP OF IT WE&apos;RE PUTTING BACK
ALL THIS STUFF ON THE FIRST
FLOOR REDOING NINETEEN FIFTY
STOREFRONT DOWNTOWN WEST
LIBERTY AND EVEN IF YOU SEE IN
THIS NEW DRAWING HERE I HAD OUR
ATTACK DAVID.
I WANTED HIM TO PUT THE CORNICE
BACK ON TO TWENTY.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU NOTICED
THAT IN THIS RENDITION IT&apos;S NOT
SO MUCH PART OF THIS
APPLICATION.
IT&apos;S JUST TO SHOW YOU HEY WE
PUT THAT CORNICE THERE IN THE
VERY THE FIRST ONE AND YOU GUYS
SEEM TO LIKE IT THEN WE SAY YOU
CAN DO THE COURSE.
WE TOOK IT ALL DOWN BUT I&apos;D
LIKE TO PUT THE IDEA THE
CORNICE BACK ON TO TWENTY SO
YOU CAN SEE HOW THIS BUILDING
MIGHT LOOK WITH TWO TWENTIES
CORNICE JUST FOR A LITTLE BIT
EXTRA GRAVY TO SAY HEY WE CAN
PUT THAT BACK THERE AS WELL.
WE CAN PUT SOME GREAT STUFF ON
THE FIRST FLOOR AS WELL.
ENHANCE THIS PROJECT AND MAKE
SOME PEOPLE FEEL BETTER ABOUT
IT IF THEY&apos;RE NOT SO SURE ABOUT
THIS PROJECT.
BUT EVERYONE I TALKED TO SEEMS
PRETTY EXCITED ABOUT IT.
THE COMMENTS ONLINE HAVE BEEN
POSITIVE AND FOR BUILDING AND I
HOPE YOU GUYS CAN SEE IT THAT
WAY AS WELL.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
ME?
I&apos;M ALWAYS AVAILABLE TO THANK
YOU BOTH.
&gt;&gt; THANK
COMMISSIONERS.
ANY QUESTIONS?
I MEAN I MEAN ARE WE HAVING
MORE COMMENTARY AFTER THAT OR
YEAH.
YEAH I WAS GOING TO UM I&apos;M JUST
CURIOUS.
YES.
ANY ANY DISCUSSION I MEAN GO
AHEAD.
OK SO I THINK COMMISSIONER
WHITE SAID SOME NICE WORDS
EARLIER AND YOU KNOW HE&apos;S
REALLY I THINK EMPATHIZING WITH
THE APPLICANT HERE AND AND THEN
WE JUST HEARD SOME NICE WORDS
FROM MR. CURTIS&apos;S AND SO YOU
KNOW, IT IT&apos;S NICE TO EMPATHIZE
WITH THE APPLICANT AND I DO.
BUT THEN ALSO, YOU KNOW, I&apos;VE
SWORN TO OATH WITH THE CITY TO
UPHOLD THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
STANDARD.
SO YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE WEIGHING ALL
OF THOSE THINGS UP HERE AND AND
I THINK ADDING TO THE MIX IS
SOME CONFLICTING ADVICE IT WAS
GIVEN DURING THE WORKING
SESSIONS AND SO THAT&apos;S MAYBE
ADDING SOME CONFUSION TO THIS
APPLICATION.
BUT I THINK THAT FOR ME I NEED
TO PUT ASIDE WHAT WAS SAID AT
THE AT THOSE WORKING SESSIONS
AND JUST RESPOND TO WHAT&apos;S
BEING PROPOSED IN THIS
APPLICATION.
THAT&apos;S WHAT MY ROLE IS HERE AS
A COMMISSIONER.
SO IF I MAY I&apos;LL JUST SPEAK FOR
MYSELF IF HYPOTHETICALLY I MADE
A MISTAKE AND SAID SOMETHING
DURING A WORKING SESSION, I
DON&apos;T THINK I SHOULD MAKE
ANOTHER MISTAKE NOW AND DO
SOMETHING THAT I THINK WOULD
LIKE BE AGAINST WHAT I BELIEVE
IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO RIGHT
NOW.
SO THAT&apos;S ONE THING.
SO THEN ANOTHER THING IS I
DON&apos;T SEE I DON&apos;T SEE THE NET
ZERO OR NET ZERO ENERGY OR NET
ZERO CARBON BUILDING IN THE
PROPOSAL.
I JUST DON&apos;T SEE IT.
IT IT HASN&apos;T BEEN TALKED ABOUT
UNTIL RIGHT NOW.
I THINK THAT&apos;S REALLY
INTERESTING AND I THINK THAT
WOULD ADD TO THE PROPOSAL FOR
SURE THE STANDARDS ARE SORT
OF INDIFFERENT TO IT.
YOU KNOW IT DOESN&apos;T SAY ONE WAY
OR ANOTHER BUT I THINK THAT YOU
THAT WOULD BE A POSITIVE BUT I
DON&apos;T SEE IT IN THE PROPOSAL SO
I CAN&apos;T REALLY RESPOND TO IT IN
THIS INSTANCE.
I GUESS I WILL JUST SAY WHAT&apos;S
BEING PROPOSED IS THE
RESTORATION OF A ONE STOREY
BUILDING AND THEN A ROOFTOP
ADDITION TO A RESTORED ONE
STOREY BUILDING.
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M
RESPONDING TO HERE.
THAT&apos;S THE APPLICATION THAT WAS
PROPOSED BY THE APPLICANT AND
SO I FEEL LIKE WITH EVERYTHING
THAT I&apos;VE HEARD AND SEEN THIS
MOMENT THE TWO STOREY ROOFTOP
ADDITIONS IS OUT OF SCALE WITH
THE ONE STOREY HISTORIC
STRUCTURE THAT SO THEREFORE
WHAT I&apos;M SAYING IS IF WE ADD A
TWO STOREY ROOFTOP ADDITION TO
THIS HISTORIC STRUCTURE IT WILL
RUIN THE HISTORIC CHARACTER AND
WE FAILED AS A COMMISSION TO
RETAIN AND PRESERVE THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF OUR
BUILDINGS.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT SAYING THAT WE
DON&apos;T LIKE THE BUILDING OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
YOU KNOW, LIKE IF IT&apos;S NOT A
HISTORIC DISTRICT WE&apos;RE NOT
HERE AND WE ALL LIKE YOU&apos;RE
BUILDING IT, IT&apos;S BUILT.
BUT THIS IS A HISTORIC DISTRICT
.
YOU&apos;VE MADE THIS PARTICULAR
APPLICATION AND WHAT I SEE NO
MATTER WHAT I MIGHT HAVE SAID
OR WHAT ANY OF US HAVE SAID AT
ANY OTHER TIME, THAT&apos;S WHAT I
SEE RIGHT NOW.
SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHERE I STAND.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS FROM
COMMISSIONER?
I THINK THAT WAS WELL STATED.
THE GUIDELINES ARE REALLY THE
IS COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN STATED
WHAT WE ARE HERE TO REVIEW THE
APPLICANT THE SPECIFIC
APPLICATION TO THE SPECIFIC
GUIDELINES THAT ARE APPLIED.
SO I THINK THAT&apos;S WHAT FOR ME
PERSONALLY THAT&apos;S WHAT I
REVIEWING WHENEVER I&apos;M LOOKING
AT THE APPLICATION AND WE READY
FOR A VOTE OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION, PLEASE SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO NO, NO.
YOUR MOTION DOES NOT CARRY UM
HAS BEEN DENIED.
SO I APPRECIATE YOU COMING
FORWARD.
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE HARD WORK
AND TIME THAT YOU&apos;VE PUT INTO
THIS.
OH YES.
I APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
I REALLY LOOK FORWARD TO
BRINGING SOMETHING TO YOU NEXT
MONTH THAT YOU CAN&apos;T SAY NO AND
I WOULD LIKE TO MEET WITH ALL
OF YOU SOME POINT IN THE NEXT
COUPLE OF WEEKS MAYBE BEFORE I
KNOW THERE&apos;S A MEETING ON
MONDAY BUT THAT&apos;S TOO SOON TO
MAKE ANY CHANGES BEFORE
THURSDAY.
THERE&apos;S A TIME WHEN ANY OF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO MEET THIS NEXT
WEEK WITH ME THERE WE CAN MAYBE
GO OVER A COUPLE DETAILS OR
OTHER THINGS LIKE NOW&apos;S THE
TIME MAKE SOME FINAL CHANGES TO
GIVE YOU A PROPOSAL THAT I HAVE
IN MY MIND THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
OUR LAST TEN GRAND EVERY HOW WE
COME TO YOU.
SO I&apos;VE GOT ONE MORE SHOT TO DO
THIS AND I WOULD LIKE YOUR
INPUT RATHER DOESN&apos;T HELP WITH
ME TO STAY IN THE BUILDING.
LOOK AT IT BY MYSELF.
SO MAYBE FOR THE TIME THAT
GENERAL AND MAYBE SOMETIMES
AVAILABLE WE WOULD BE GREATLY
APPRECIATED BY HARMONY WITH
YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SIR.
AND ON A PERSONAL COMMERCIAL
WAY I HAVE TO SAY WITH
ABSOLUTELY AN INSPIRATIONAL
COMEDIAN I WAS ONE OF THE
INCREDIBLE WOMEN OF OUR MOSCOW
FRIENDS THEN I HAVE A GENERAL
AS A MILITARY MEMBER I FIND
THAT VERY INSPIRATIONAL.
YOU MUST BE VERY PROUD.
I AM VERY PROUD.
I THINK THAT I&apos;LL BE IN TOUCH
WITH YOU.
OK, THANK YOU.
I&apos;M MOVING ON TO ITEM F
HEARINGS ITEM F ONE TWO SIX E
HERE ON THE DESPATCHER WE
PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF REPORT.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
LET ME GET THE SLIDE SHOW GO ON
HERE
.
OK
TWO SIX E HERE ON STREET
THAT IS IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT IT&apos;S ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF EAST HERE.
I&apos;M SORRY ADVANCE MY SLIDE.
HERE WE GO.
IT IS THE KLEINSCHMIDT BUILDING
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET FROM
CITY HALL.
THIS WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
NINETEEN FORTY NO IT WASN&apos;T 267
WAS CONSTRUCTED IN NINETEEN
THIRTY ONE FOR THE ANN ARBOR
TRIBUNE.
IT&apos;S AN ART MODERNE STYLE WITH
STEEL CASEMENT WINDOWS TAPESTRY
BRICK STONE TRIM AND BRONZE
WORK.
IT WAS THE HOME OF KLEINSCHMIDT
INSURANCE FOR MANY YEARS AND
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO ADD A
SIGN TO THE FRONT FACADE.
&gt;&gt; THE SIGN IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT IS THIRTY SIX INCHES IN
DIAMETER.
IT&apos;S A DOUBLE SIDED BLADE SIGN
AND IT PROJECTS APPROXIMATELY
THREE AND A HALF FEET FROM THE
FACE OF THE BUILDING USING OUR
MOUNTS STEEL PLATE.
IT IS IT IT DOES EXCEED THE
SIZE THE MAXIMUM SIZE FOR THE
PEDESTRIAN SCALE SIDE.
IT&apos;S NOT REALLY INTENDED TO BE
THAT THOUGH BECAUSE THIS IS THE
ONLY SIGNAGE ON THE BUILDING
AND AS SUCH STAFF DOES THINK
THAT IT&apos;S OK, IT&apos;S SEVEN POINT
ONE SQUARE FEET THINKS THAT IT
IS APPROPRIATE BECAUSE THIS IS
MOSTLY A MOTOR VEHICLE
CORRIDOR.
IT DOES GET SOME PEDESTRIANS
BUT THERE IS NOT ANOTHER
PEDESTRIAN SCALE SIGN
BUT THE
LOCATION IS APPROPRIATE.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S ALONGSIDE THIS BANK
OF WINDOWS ALIGNS NICELY WITH
THIS TRIM ON THE STOREFRONT
NEXT DOOR THE THE METHOD
OF MOUNTING IS I THINK THAT
THEY SIGNIFY THAT THEY WOULD DO
IT THROUGH MORTAR JOINTS.
YEP.
ALIGNED TO THE MORTAR JOINTS
AND IT IS NOT ILLUMINATED.
SO I THINK THAT EVERYTHING IS
IS IS RIGHT ABOUT THIS SIGN FOR
THIS BUILDING THE SIZE, THE
STYLE, HOW THEY&apos;RE ATTACHING IT
AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL FROM THE SECRETARY
OF TO YOUR STANDARD I SHOULD GO
THROUGH NO.
TWO SAYS THAT THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURE SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE SCALE
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
AND NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR STOREFRONTS.
IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO USE
INAPPROPRIATELY SCALED SIGNS
THE LOGOS OR OTHER TYPES
OF SIGNS THAT OBSCURE DAMAGE OR
DESTROY REMAINING CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES FROM THE
ANIBA HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL SIGNAGE THAT&apos;S
COMPATIBLE IN SIZE STYLE
MATERIALS AND APPEARANCE TO
THIS RESOURCE AND DISTRICT AND
TO INSTALL SIGNAGE THAT
SUBORDINATE TO THE OVERALL
BUILDING COMPOSITION.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. ARCHER.
COMMISSIONERS WILLISON KIYONO
WERE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE GIVE US YOUR REPORT.
I THINK THAT THE PLACEMENT AND
SIZE OF THE SIGN WILL BE REALLY
ESSENTIAL FOR A SUCCESSFUL
OPERATION OF THAT BUSINESS.
IT GIVES GREAT VISIBILITY TO
THE LOCATION FROM THE STREET AS
WELL AS FOR PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
WALLACE&apos;S COMMENTS STAFF REPORT
AND ALSO FURTHERING HER
COMMENTS THAT YOU&apos;LL SEE IN
THIS THE ST. ELEVATION THAT
THERE&apos;S A SINGLE DOOR TO THE
RIGHT HAND SIDE OF THE KIND
OF MODERN STOREFRONT GLASS THAT
I BELIEVE IS PART OF THIS
BUSINESS.
BUT THE DOOR IS NOT FOR THAT
THE ENTRANCE FOR THIS BUSINESS
BUSINESS.
IS CENTERED ON THAT HISTORIC
THE ENTRANCE FOR THIS BUSINESS
FACADE.
IS CENTERED ON THAT HISTORIC
SO AGAIN FURTHER CLARIFYING
FACADE.
WHERE CUSTOMERS ARE SUPPOSED TO
SO AGAIN FURTHER CLARIFYING
GO IMPROVE THE BUSINESS
WHERE CUSTOMERS ARE SUPPOSED TO
FUNCTIONING SO THANK YOU WITH
GO IMPROVE THE BUSINESS
THE APPLICANT PLEASE AND YOUR
FUNCTIONING SO THANK YOU WITH
MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR VIDEO
THE APPLICANT PLEASE AND YOUR
IF POSSIBLE.
MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR VIDEO
&gt;&gt; PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
IF POSSIBLE.
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD.
&gt;&gt; PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
YOU&apos;LL HAVE A GOOD FIVE MINUTES
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD.
TO SPEAK IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING
YOU&apos;LL HAVE A GOOD FIVE MINUTES
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO THE STAFF
TO SPEAK IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING
REPORT OR REVIEW COMMITTEE
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT I CAN HEAR YES FROM THE
REPORT OR REVIEW COMMITTEE
BOARD MEMBERS AND THE TIME YEAH
REPORT I CAN HEAR YES FROM THE
THE SIGN IS PRETTY MUCH, YOU
BOARD MEMBERS AND THE TIME YEAH
KNOW, SIMPLE AND THAT IS SOME
THE SIGN IS PRETTY MUCH, YOU
PLACE TO CLASS AND SOME YOU
KNOW, SIMPLE AND THAT IS SOME
KNOW SOME ARCHITECTURAL
PLACE TO CLASS AND SOME YOU
FEATURES WHICH IS NICE AND YOU
KNOW SOME ARCHITECTURAL
KNOW IT&apos;S PRETTY SIMPLE AND
FEATURES WHICH IS NICE AND YOU
STRAIGHTFORWARD THAT DOES THE
KNOW IT&apos;S PRETTY SIMPLE AND
THE JAPANESE DO FOR IDENTIFYING
STRAIGHTFORWARD THAT DOES THE
AND HELPING ON THE BUSINESS.
THE JAPANESE DO FOR IDENTIFYING
THANK YOU COMMISSIONERS.
AND HELPING ON THE BUSINESS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THANK YOU COMMISSIONERS.
THE APPLICANT?
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
OK, I WILL NOT LIKE TO OPEN THE
THE APPLICANT?
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
OK, I WILL NOT LIKE TO OPEN THE
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
APPLICATION AT 260 067 PUBLIC
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
COMMENT MAY BE MADE BY CALLING
APPLICATION AT 260 067 PUBLIC
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
COMMENT MAY BE MADE BY CALLING
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
ENTERING MEETING NIDHI FOUND
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO
ENTERING MEETING NIDHI FOUND
ONE FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE.
NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
ONE FOUR FIVE ONE FIVE.
INDICATING FOR PUBLIC COMMENT?
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T CLOSE THE PUBLIC
INDICATING FOR PUBLIC COMMENT?
HEARING PORTION.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T CLOSE THE PUBLIC
UM IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
HEARING PORTION.
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
UM IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
THE APPLICATION COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
CAN I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
THE APPLICATION COMMISSIONER
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
CAN I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
APPLICATION TO A SIX E HERE ON
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
APPLICATION TO A SIX E HERE ON
IN THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
DISTRICT TO INSTALL A NEW 36
IN THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
INCH DIAMETER BLADE SIGN
DISTRICT TO INSTALL A NEW 36
MOUNTED AND MORTAR JOINTS AS
INCH DIAMETER BLADE SIGN
PROPOSED.
MOUNTED AND MORTAR JOINTS AS
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
PROPOSED.
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
TEXTURE AND MATERIAL AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
TEXTURE AND MATERIAL AND
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
GUIDELINES FOR SCIENCE AND THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR SCIENCE AND THE
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
AND GUIDELINES FOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
AND GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
THE GUIDELINES FOR STOREFRONTS.
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
SECOND MOVE BY COMMISSIONER KEY
THE GUIDELINES FOR STOREFRONTS.
I KNOW SECONDED BY
SECOND MOVE BY COMMISSIONER KEY
COMMISSIONER.
I KNOW SECONDED BY
WHY IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON
COMMISSIONER.
THE MOTION A QUESTION FOR STAFF
WHY IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON
?
THE MOTION A QUESTION FOR STAFF
JUST REMIND ME THERE A LOT
?
OF TEXT ON THE WINDOWS.
JUST REMIND ME THERE A LOT
DO THOSE COUNT AS SIGNAGE OR
OF TEXT ON THE WINDOWS.
THOSE DO NOT COUNT AS SIGNAGE?
DO THOSE COUNT AS SIGNAGE OR
TO BE HONEST I DON&apos;T KNOW SINCE
THOSE DO NOT COUNT AS SIGNAGE?
WE CHANGED THE SIGN CODE FROM
TO BE HONEST I DON&apos;T KNOW SINCE
THE FDIC&apos;S PERSPECTIVE I KIND
WE CHANGED THE SIGN CODE FROM
OF FEEL LIKE ANYTHING THAT&apos;S
THE FDIC&apos;S PERSPECTIVE I KIND
VINYL OR PAINTED ON LETTERS ON
OF FEEL LIKE ANYTHING THAT&apos;S
GLASS IS ACCEPTABLE BECAUSE
VINYL OR PAINTED ON LETTERS ON
THAT&apos;S THE BEST WAY FOR SIGNS
GLASS IS ACCEPTABLE BECAUSE
TO GO ON HISTORIC BUILDINGS IF
THAT&apos;S THE BEST WAY FOR SIGNS
IT&apos;S IF IT&apos;S A LARGE DECAL OR
TO GO ON HISTORIC BUILDINGS IF
SOMETHING THAT&apos;S GOING TO
IT&apos;S IF IT&apos;S A LARGE DECAL OR
OBSCURE A HALF OF THE WINDOW
SOMETHING THAT&apos;S GOING TO
THAT&apos;S DIFFERENT.
OBSCURE A HALF OF THE WINDOW
THAT&apos;S DEFINITELY A SIGN.
THAT&apos;S DIFFERENT.
BUT IF IT YEAH.
THAT&apos;S DEFINITELY A SIGN.
IF IT HAS JUST WRITING IN WORDS
BUT IF IT YEAH.
I GENERALLY DON&apos;T THINK THAT
IF IT HAS JUST WRITING IN WORDS
THAT REQUIRES A CERTIFICATE
I GENERALLY DON&apos;T THINK THAT
OF APPROPRIATENESS.
THAT REQUIRES A CERTIFICATE
THANK YOU FOR THAT
OF APPROPRIATENESS.
CLARIFICATION.
THANK YOU FOR THAT
I NEITHER COMMENT OR QUESTION.
CLARIFICATION.
I THINK THIS IS A VERY
I NEITHER COMMENT OR QUESTION.
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION AND
I THINK THIS IS A VERY
A GROUP DEATHS REPORT ALL
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION AND
OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
A GROUP DEATHS REPORT ALL
PLEASE SAY YES, YES, YES, YES.
OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
PLEASE SAY YES, YES, YES, YES.
.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
.
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
PROJECT.
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
PROJECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR OK SO
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ON TO ITEM F TO FOUR THIRTY SIX
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR OK SO
THIRD STREET ALL RIGHT FOUR
ON TO ITEM F TO FOUR THIRTY SIX
THIRTY SIX THIRD STREET
THIS
GIRL I&apos;M SORRY ONE SECOND
OH
THIS DOESN&apos;T LOOK NICE I&apos;M
SORRY
EVERYTHING IS GOING SO
SLOWLY TONIGHT.
I DO APOLOGIZE THERE IT IS
FIRST
.
ALL RIGHT FOUR THIRTY SIX THIRD
STREET IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT&apos;S A QUEEN AND THAT APPEARS
TO HAVE BEEN USED AS A DUPLEX
AS EARLY AS EIGHTEEN NINETY
FOUR SOMETIME BETWEEN EIGHTEEN
NINETY NINE AND NINETY EIGHT OR
ONE STORY WING WAS ADDED TO THE
NORTH SIDE OF THE TWO STORY
HOUSE.
QUITE A BIT OF WORK WENT ON
FIVE TO SEVEN YEARS AGO ON THIS
HOUSE THERE WAS THE THE
CARRIAGE HOUSE IN THE BACK WAS
CONVERTED TO AN EIGHTY YOU AND
A LOT OF RESTORATION WORK WAS
DONE.
THIS APPLICATION IS TO ACTUALLY
REMOVE SOME NON HISTORIC
FEATURES OF THE BUILDING LIKE
THE STAIRCASE AND THIS EGRESS
STAIR AND THE ROOF OVER THE TOP
OF IT.
THIS WOULD NORMALLY BE A STAFF
APPROVAL BUT THERE&apos;S ONE WORK
ITEM THAT REQUIRES APPROVAL
FROM THE COMMISSION AND I&apos;LL
TELL YOU ABOUT IN A MINUTE.
SO IT SORT OF SENT THE WHOLE
THING HERE BUT THERE&apos;S A
DOORWAY UP TOP HERE.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO REPLACE THAT
WITH A WINDOW AND ACTUALLY LET
ME LOOK AT THE PLANS.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A LITTLE WINDOW
THAT&apos;S CLEARLY NOT ORIGINAL
THAT WAS SHOEHORNED IN HERE AND
THEY WOULD LIKE TO REMOVE THE
WHOLE THING AND JUST IN FILL IT
WITH MATCHING TRIM WHICH IS
ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THE THE THE LAST THING IS
TO I&apos;M SURE THAT DOOR OPENING
WILL JUST BE ENFIELD.
THERE&apos;S NO WINDOW PROPOSED
THERE.
IT&apos;S JUST CITING THE WAY IT WAS
HISTORICALLY.
THE LAST ITEM IS THIS WINDOW ON
THE SIDE.
IF YOU LOOK CLOSELY YOU CAN SEE
WHERE A LONGER WINDOW YOU CAN
ACTUALLY ALMOST SEE IT ON HERE.
THERE WAS A LONGER WINDOW IN
HERE A LITTLE BIT TALLER THAN
ITS NEIGHBOR NEXT DOOR AND
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING TO REMOVE THE
SMALLER WINDOW AND RESTORE THE
OPENING TO THIS LARGER SIZE AND
PUT IN AN EGRESS WINDOW.
IT WOULD BE CASEMENT WINDOW
WITH A FALSE FORCE MILLION
ACROSS THE MIDDLE I&apos;M SORRY
FALSE ACROSS THE WINDOW.
THIS IS WHERE MY BEFORE PHOTO
GO.
ALL RIGHT.
MY BEFORE IS MISSING.
THIS IS THE AFTER THIS IS THE
WINDOW MADE TAHLA TO IT&apos;S
WHAT&apos;S PRESUMED TO BE ITS
HISTORIC PROPORTIONS SINCE
THAT&apos;S THE THE THE GHOSTING
THAT WE CAN SEE ON THE SIDING
THE WHOLE STAIRCASE IS HERE ON
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE THAT
WOULD BE REMOVED AND HERE&apos;S
THAT LITTLE WINDOW THAT&apos;S BEEN
FILLED WITH SIDING.
SO THIS IS ALL SORT OF NO
BRAINER WORK AND IT&apos;S JUST THIS
THIS THIS WINDOW IN A LARGER
OPENING EVEN IT&apos;S THE HISTORIC
OPENING.
IT WAS IT&apos;S NOT THE HISTORIC
WINDOW DESIGN.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT SENT THIS
APPLICATION TO YOU GUYS.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT&apos;S ABOUT IT FROM
THE SECRETARY TO YOUR
STANDARDS.
I HAVE NOT READ STANDARD ONE TO
YOU YET.
PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE WITH DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURE SPACES AND
SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE READ NO TO AND NO
TEND TO YOU SO THAT&apos;S IT FOR
ME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
COMMISSIONER WILL THANK YOU.
WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REVIEWS?
I GENERALLY AGREE WITH THE
STAFF REPORT THAT WAS PRESENTED
AND WALKING AROUND THE REAR
PORTION OF THE PROPERTY WAS
VERY CLEAR.
THESE DISTINCT ELEMENTS THAT
ARE NON ORIGINAL THAT ARE BEING
PROPOSED TO RESTORE TO MORE OR
LESS THE ORIGINAL CONDITION AND
NONE OF THESE ELEMENTS ARE
VISIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
IT&apos;S A VERY DEEP SITE ACTUALLY
IT&apos;S A LOT GOING ON THAT
PROPERTY BUT VERY WELL
MAINTAINED IT LOOKS LIKE AS
WELL.
SO MR MILLS, I DEFINITELY AGREE
THE CHANGES THAT ARE BEING
ASKED TO BE MADE WILL IMPROVE
THE WAY THAT THE PROPERTY LOOKS
WITH THE APPLICANT.
PLEASE TURN YOUR MICROPHONE
,
TURN ON YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE
AND PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE TO GIVE THEM ONE
MINUTE TO COME IN BECAUSE MY
COMPUTER&apos;S VERY SLOW ABOUT
PROMOTING RYAN RYAN I&apos;M WORKING
ON IT.
OK, HERE HE COMES ALL RIGHT,
RYAN, YOU CAN UNMUTED AND TURN
ON YOUR CAMERA IF POSSIBLE.
OH, THAT EVENING.
THAT&apos;S GOOD.
&gt;&gt; YES.
I&apos;M ACTUALLY JUST HERE TO SEE
IF ANYBODY HAS ANY QUESTIONS
FOR ME AND THE ARCHITECT WHO
DID THE DRAWINGS FOR THIS
PROJECT AND ULTIMATELY HE&apos;S
TRYING TO TAKE A LITTLE MORE
WELL, WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE USED
AND WHAT&apos;S THEIR CASE AND WHAT
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO BE A LITTLE
BIT TALLER.
THE PRIMARY REASON FOR US TO DO
THAT AS WE&apos;D LIKE TO HAVE A
BEDROOM ON THE INSIDE, WE&apos;D
LIKE TO LOWER THE WINDOWS
INSIDE SLIGHTLY TO EGRESS
REQUIREMENTS.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; OK, I WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS ITEM
ON UH FOUR THIRTY SIX THIRD
STREET.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION.
UH DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
INDICATED TO SPEAK?
NO.
OK WE&apos;LL CLOSE A PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION.
UM IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO TAKE EMOTION ON
THIS APPLICATION?
&gt;&gt; MR. FEENY?
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FOUR THREE SIX
THIRD STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REMOVE A
REAR FIRE ESCAPE STAIR AND
RESTORE THE OPENING TO EXTERIOR
WOOD SIDED SOLID WALL TO
REPLACE IT LARGE A SECOND FLOOR
REAR WINDOW TO ITS ORIGINAL
OPENING SIZE AND CREATE AN
EGRESS COMPLIANT WINDOW AND
REMOVE A FIRST FLOOR REAR
WINDOW AND RESTORE THE OPENING
TO EXTERIOR WOOD SIDED SOLID
WALL AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST
OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATE AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TO
NINE AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES
FOR WINDOWS IN THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WINDOWS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WHITE DURING
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN YEAH I
THINK IT MIGHT BE A QUESTION
FOR RYAN MORE THAN A DISCUSSION
AT THIS POINT BUT I WAS JUST
THINKING, RYAN, WHEN YOU
MENTIONED THE STILL HIGH AND
THAT THIS STILL HIDE IS BASED
ON EGRESS UM, I&apos;M JUST
WONDERING ARE ARE YOU GOING TO
DO SOME INVESTIGATE AND SOME
SOME SELECTIVE DEMO TO
UNDERSTAND EXACTLY WHERE THE
EXISTING SEAL HEIGHT IS OR ARE
YOU PROPOSING A SPECIFIC SEAL
HEIGHT BASED ON A I GUESS AN
INTERIOR AND IF IT IS THE
INTERIOR AND BASED ON EGRESS UM
,IT DOESN&apos;T THE CODE ISN&apos;T A
CODE SOMETHING LIKE FORTY FOUR
INCHES MAXIMUM OR SOMETHING SO
SO WHY AM I SO JUST I GUESS IF
YOU COULD EXPLAIN THAT A LITTLE
MORE.
&gt;&gt; YES OK SO THE EGRESS IS
REALLY JUST THE MORE THAT
BEHIND ALTERATION ALL YOU NEED
TO DO IS GET THE WINDOWS BELOW
FOUR TO FOUR INCHES AND SO
THOSE ARE INTENDED TO DO SOME
SELECTIVE PULL AWAY THE PLASTER
DRYWALL FROM THE INSIDE
SERVICE.
WE CONFIRM ACTUALLY WHAT THAT
ORIGINAL OPENING NIGHT WAS AND
THEN MATCH IT FROM THAT THAT
THE HISTORIC WINDOW SILL IS
LOWER THAN FORTY FOUR INCHES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THAT
EXPLANATION.
ANY ADDITIONAL COMMENTS REQUEST
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU ONTO ITEM F THREE 514
S FIRST THREE STATUTORY PLEASE
GET TO STAFFORD WHEN YOU&apos;RE
READY.
SURE 514 S FIRST IS IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS HOUSE WAS BUILT IN 1892 BY
ECKERT&apos;S STEIN AND THE STEIN
FAMILY LIVED IN THE HOUSE UNTIL
1911.
IT IS A TWO STOREY GABLE FRONT
DOOR WITH A CUT STONE
FOUNDATION FOR DECORATIVE
SHINGLES IN THE GABLES AND IN
2016 IN TWO THOUSAND AND TWENTY
ONE THIS BOARD APPROVED QUITE A
FEW WORK ITEMS TO REBUILD A
MISSING FRONT PORCH AND A SMALL
ADDITION AND DECK AND VARIOUS
SITE IMPROVEMENT.
I THINK THE LAST MOST RECENT
ONE WAS FOR LANDSCAPING.
THIS PROPOSAL IS TO BUILD A
VERY SMALL SHED BACK HERE IN
THE CORNER OF THE YARD TO THE
LEFT OF THESE TREES.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A DEEP LOT.
IT&apos;S A FULL ORIGINAL SIZE CITY
LOT.
YOU CAN SEE THAT PROPOSED
GARDEN SHED GOES RIGHT HERE IN
THE BACK OF THE LAWN AREA BACK
BY THE FENCE PROBABLY RIGHT
ABOUT HERE.
THE SHED ITSELF IS EIGHT INCHES
WIDE BY EIGHTY SIX INCHES IN
DIAMETER.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ONE HUNDRED INCHES
HIGH.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S ADORABLE.
SORRY I&apos;M NOT SUPPOSED TO SAY
THINGS LIKE THAT BUT IT IS AND
STAFF THINKS THAT IT WILL FIT
IN JUST FINE IN THIS THIS
SPACIOUS BACKYARD ALONGSIDE A
SOLID BORDER FENCE FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS.
I&apos;VE READ TO ALL OF THEM I
THINK ONE, TWO AND TEN YES.
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED
TO RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS,
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE AND I DON&apos;T THINK THIS
COMPROMISES ANY OF THOSE FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
OF THE BUILDING SITE WHICH IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE BUT I
DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S A PROBLEM OR
I THINK THAT THIS IS COMPLETELY
COMPATIBLE.
SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THIS APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
IS THAT YOU COMMISSIONER
WILSON?
CAN WE PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REVIEW COMMITTEE DID NOT OBJECT
TO MR. I GUESS ALL THE ONLY
THING TO ADD IS THAT YEAH I
AGREE IS VERY SPACIOUS REAR
YARD WITH MULTIPLE IMPROVEMENTS
THAT WE&apos;VE ALREADY REVIEWED AND
APPROVED AND THE THE SCALE
OF THIS GARDEN SHED REALLY
WOULD NOT AND ITS PLACEMENT IS
LIKE THE PRIME PLACEMENT
AUDIENCE WOULD NOT DETRACT FROM
THE OPEN SPACE.
OK, THANK YOU.
WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE AND
MEET YOUR MICROPHONE AND TURN
ON YOUR VIDEO FEED IF POSSIBLE
AND PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD?
SURE.
AND MY HUSBAND GABRIEL URLICH
AND WE LIVE BY SOUTH VERSTRAETE
AND AS YOU CAN SEE FROM JOE&apos;S
FIRST PICTURE RIGHT WE BOUGHT
THE HOUSE.
THERE WAS NO LISTING GARAGE AND
WE ELECTED NOT TO FLY AT THAT
POINT TO TRY TO BUILD ONE BUT
WE&apos;VE REALIZED WE HAVE NO PLACE
TO STORE A LAWN MOWER SNOW
SHOVEL SO ARE JUST SITTING ON
THE SIDE OF OUR HOUSE AND WE
WOULD LIKE TO GET THEM OFF
OF OUR YARD AND HAVE THEM
TUCKED AWAY AND OUT OF SIGHT.
SO YOU&apos;RE HOPING TO GET A
GARDEN SHED TO DO SO.
COMMISSIONERS, DO YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT?
OK, I&apos;D LIKE TO OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT 514 S FIRST
STREET.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
INDICATING TO SPEAK?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T THINK YOU CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
COMMISSIONER RECLEAR?
&gt;&gt; I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 514 S FIRST
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
AND YOUR BEST HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO INSTALL A SEVENTY INCH WIDE
AND SEVENTY FIVE INCH DEEP AND
ONE HUNDRED INCH TALL CEDAR
SHED AT THE LEFT REAR OF THE
SITE AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN DESIGN PLACEMENT
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE SURROUNDING RESOURCES AND
MEETS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO AND TEN.
&gt;&gt; THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE CERCA MOVES BY
COMMISSIONER EKLAND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ON THIS MOTION?
I THINK THIS IS A VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
I THINK IT&apos;S SOME ADDITIONAL
VERY NICE IMPROVEMENTS TO
IMPROVEMENTS THAT HAVE ALREADY
BEEN MADE THROUGHOUT THE FOR
THIS PARTICULAR PROPERTY.
SO UM, WE&apos;RE ALL READY FOR A
VOTE OF THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE
SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
&gt;&gt; THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING WORK
ON YOUR PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANKS MERIDETH.
AND GIVE RIGHT NOW ON
TO ITEM F
FOR ONE EIGHTEEN E WASHINGTON
ONE EIGHTEEN E WASHINGTON IS IN
THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THIS IS A TWO STOREY BRICK
COMMERCIAL ITALIANATE BUILDING.
IT WAS CONSTRUCTED AT EIGHTEEN
SEVENTY SIX FEATURES SEGMENTED
ARCHES STONE TRIM PLASTERS ON
ONE OVER ONE WINDOWS THE FIRST
OCCUPANT IS EARNESTINE ROMA
MILLENARY.
&gt;&gt; THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A NEW OVAL
PEDESTRIAN SCALE BLADE SIDE
BRACKETS MEASURING
APPROXIMATELY THREE FEET ONE
INCH BUT WIDE AND ONE FOOT NINE
INCHES TALL.
THE PROPOSED STORE IS FOR THE
SIGN IS FOR THE GROUND FLOOR
BUSINESS AND WILL BE PLACED
BETWEEN THE TWO STOREFRONT
WINDOWS AT ONE EIGHTEEN EAST
WASHINGTON STREET.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A LITTLE HARD TO SEE
ACTUALLY YOU CAN&apos;T SEE IT AT
ALL BUT RIGHT AROUND HERE IS
ANOTHER SIGN THAT THE DC
RECENTLY APPROVED IS A SMALL
STATE FARM INSURANCE SIGN.
IT&apos;S EVEN SMALLER MUCH SMALLER
THAN THE ONE THAT&apos;S PROPOSED
HERE.
SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT THE SIGN THIS SIGNED HERE
FOR THIS BUSINESS THAT HAS
NEWLY MOVED INTO THIS
STOREFRONT IS PROPOSED BETWEEN
THE WINDOWS SORT OF CENTERED IN
THE STOREFRONT USUALLY ASK
PEOPLE TO PUT PEDESTRIAN SIGNS
BY THE DOOR.
BUT IN THIS CASE IT WOULD JUST
BE I THINK MORE CONFUSING TO
THE PEDESTRIAN AND THIS WAY
THERE THERE IT WILL BE CLEAR
WHICH BUSINESSES ON THE LEFT
AND WHICH ONE IS ON THE RIGHT.
THIS IS THE AREA WHERE IT WOULD
BE INSTALLED.
THIS IS NOT AN ORIGINAL
STOREFRONT.
THIS IS A RECREATION IMITATING
WHAT THE ORIGINAL STOREFRONT
LOOKED LIKE.
BUT THESE ARE NOT IRON COLUMNS.
THIS IS ALL WOOD CONSTRUCTION
AND THE THIRD MY BOOK SIGN IS
EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED VERY
SMALL LIGHTS ONE ON EACH SIDE
YOU CAN SEE THERE&apos;S COME ON AN
ARM ACROSS THE TOP WITH LIGHT
SHINING ON THE JUNCTION BOX IS
ON THE INTERIOR OF THE WALL
WHICH I APPRECIATE VERY MUCH
AND IT IS IT&apos;S INSTALLED IN
WOOD SO THERE&apos;S NO MORTAR
JOINTS TO WORRY ABOUT AND IT
DOES MEET THE MAXIMUM SIZE FOR
FOR SUCH A SIGN FOR SUCH A
PEDESTRIAN SIGN.
I HAVE NOT I HAVE READ TWO TWO,
NINE AND TEN ALREADY.
SO LET ME GO BACK HERE A
SECOND, SEE IF I MISSED
ANYTHING.
IT&apos;S FOUR POINT FIVE SQUARE
FEET TOTAL.
THIS IS FOUR POINT THIRTY FIVE
GO WITH THEIRS NOT OURS.
FOUR POINT FIVE IS THE MAXIMUM
SIZE FOR PEDESTRIAN SIDE SO
STEPTOE&apos;S THAT THIS IS
APPROPRIATE AND MEETS THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES AND
SHOULD BE APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
COMMISSIONER WILSON, CAN YOU
GIVE US YOUR REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION AND THE PLACEMENT
OF THIS SIDE WILL MAKE IT
EASIER TO DETERMINE WHICH IS
THE DOORWAY ENTRANCE FOR WHICH
BUSINESS.
I WAS JUST GOING TO ADD THAT
THIS OTHER SIGN THERE BUT JILL
DID THAT FOR ME NO ADDITIONAL
THANK YOU WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE MEET YOUR MICROPHONE,
TURN ON YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE
AND PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
GIVEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOUR MUTED
UM YOU LOCATED ON AGAIN AND MY
NAME IS KEVIN SHAW WITH JOHNSON
SIDING COMPANY IN YPSILANTI,
MICHIGAN AND WE ARE PROPOSING
THIS SITE AND WE FIND THIS THE
SAME PRETTY CUTE AND
APPROPRIATE FOR THE STORE AND
EVERYTHING AROUND US.
SO I THINK THINGS ARE GOOD FIT
AND EVERYTHING LIKE OK, THANK
YOU.
UM ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER ABOUT UH HI
KEVIN .
UH JUST A CLARIFICATION
QUESTION.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE IN THE
RENDERING OF THE STREET VIEW OR
THERE&apos;S A PICKUP TRUCK IN THE
FOREGROUND UM IT LOOKS LIKE THE
INTENT IS THAT THE MOUNTING
PLATE OF THE SIGN WILL FIT
BETWEEN KIND OF IN THE RECESSED
PORTION OF THAT UH, RECREATED
COLUMN WOULD CALL THAT THAT
CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT&apos;S RIGHT OVER IT.
IT&apos;S VERY NARROW BETWEEN THE
BECAUSE OF THE TWO
ARCHITECTURAL MOTIONS OR
WHATEVER THAT LOOKS LIKE AN H
OR YEAH.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S LIKE A RECESSED
PORTION SO THE SIDES STICK OUT.
YEAH.
HAS TO BE THE WIDTH OF THAT
BEING THE SIZE OF THE BEING THE
FORWARD INTO WINDOWS BUT JUST
BETWEEN THOSE TWO YOU KNOW
RECESSED GOES OVER THE RECESSED
AREA FLUSHED WITH EACH SIDE.
&gt;&gt; OK, BUT THEN YOU&apos;RE THE UM
YOUR ANCHORS ARE GOING THROUGH
SIZE SO THAT THEY&apos;RE GOING
THROUGH THE MID RECESSED
SECTION OR THEY STILL SAY TO GO
THROUGH THE DAY THEY&apos;RE SHOWING
FOR OR TO SEE FOUR OF THEM.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH THEY&apos;LL BE RIGHT
WHERE YEAH.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S LIKE THAT SHOWS YOU THE
PLAYING AS THE UH WELL YOU SIDE
BUT WE CAN PULL IT A LITTLE
CLOSER AS THERE ARE FOUR
ATTACHMENTS IS WE NEED TO HAVE
YES.
&gt;&gt; OK ALL RIGHT SO THE PLATE IS
SPANNING THAT FULL WIDTH BUT
THAT&apos;S CORRECT YEAH.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS I WILL NOW
OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS ITEM AT ONE EIGHTEEN E
WASHINGTON.
&gt;&gt; UH, JUST A REMINDER PUBLIC
COMMENT CAN BE MADE BY CALLING
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN YES.
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS FOR THIS
APPLICATION?
I DON&apos;T SHOW ANY CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION?
MR. WALLACE?
OK, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT ONE EIGHTEEN E
WASHINGTON STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
MAIN STREET HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO INSTALL A NEW ORVIL
PEDESTRIAN SCALE BLADES LINE
MEASURING THREE FEET ONE ANSHAN
WITH AND ONE FOOT NINE THREE
EIGHT INCHES IN HEIGHT MOUNTED
IN BETWEEN TWO STORE FRONT
WINDOWS AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATEER AND RELATIONSHIP
TO THE REST OF THE BUILDING AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR SIGNS AND
PEDESTRIAN SCALE SIGNS AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINE FOR STOREFRONTS
CIRCA MOVED BACK.
&gt;&gt; MR. WILLIS SECONDED
COMMISSIONER WHITE DURING
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
UM I THINK THE ONLY COMMENT OR
QUESTION THAT I HAD MAYBE FOR
KEVIN WAS UM BACK TO
COMMISSIONER KANO&apos;S UH
CLARIFICATION ON THE OTHER SIDE
IS BEING MOUNTED WHERE THE
ATTACHMENT POINTS ARE.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, LOOKING AT
THE THE SIZE IS THREE INCH
DIAMETER.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT THE THOSE
UM NARROW UM YOU KNOW I GUESS
DETAILS ARE THE WOULD KIND H
FORM ON THAT COLUMN I THINK IF
THAT COULD BE AVOIDED TO BE
DRILLED IN AND GO IN BETWEEN TO
TOWARD THE FLAT PORTION THAT I
THINK PROBABLY BE PREFERRED IF
IF IT LOOKS LIKE THERE MAY BE
SOME ADDITIONAL THAT THERE&apos;S
NOT GOING TO BE ENOUGH MATERIAL
ESSENTIALLY FOR THIS GROUP
POINT UM THAT&apos;S REALLY MY MY
ONLY COMMENT IF THAT MAKES
SENSE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH IT&apos;S FINE AS LONG AS WE
GET FOR AND STILL KEEPS THE
BEAM STRUCTURE RIGHT.
SO YEAH IT COULD SEE THAT THERE
MAY BE A NEED FOR SOME
ADDITIONAL BLOCKING OR
SOMETHING YOU KNOW BEHIND THAT
PLATE RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK WE HAVE TO
ANCHOR IN THE CENTER OR
AVOIDING THE END OF THE SIDE.
WELL WE DEFINITELY WILL ADD
TALKING TO IS OK THEN THAT I
THINK EVERYTHING IS VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES YES.
&gt;&gt; OH YES.
PLEASE SAY NO.
&gt;&gt; YOUR MOTION CARRIES UM THE
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
UM THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; YOU DO JUST KNOW THAT SUBMIT
FOR PERMITS BEFORE BEGINNING
YOUR PROJECT RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK ONTO ITEM FIVE TO ELEVEN
CRESTA AVENUE
TO ELEVEN CREST
IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS IS A TWO STOREY AND GABLE
HOUSE WITH STUCCO ON THE FIRST
FLOOR, VINYL ON THE SECOND
FLOOR WITH HIS FRONT PORCH WITH
LOW STUCCO WALLS THREE OVER ONE
WINDOWS ACCORDING TO POLK CITY
DIRECTORY HOUSE WAS FIRST
OCCUPIED IN NINETEEN TWENTY ONE
BY AGATHA STEEP, THE WIDOW
OF ISRAEL G AND ELMER J AND
CLARA CASE STEEP WHO WAS A
CLERK AT MAC AND CO WERE
BORDERS
.
THIS IS ON THE EAST SIDE
OF CREST AVENUE JUST SOUTH
OF WEST WASHINGTON STREET AND
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO CONVERT AN EXISTING
SCREENED PORCH INTO A FULLY
ENCLOSED CONDITIONED ROOM.
THE PORCHES UNDERNEATH THE
CANTILEVERED SECOND FLOOR
EDITION.
THIS IS A PRETTY RECENT ONE
TOO.
IT JUST WAS WAS CONSTRUCTED A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
I THINK ITS ITS CONVERSION WILL
NOT CHANGE THE CURRENT
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING AND
WILL ADD ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
EIGHT SQUARE FEET FLOOR AREA IT
THIS THIS WILL NOT WILL NOT
INCREASE THE FOOTPRINT OR THE
FLOOR AREA BEYOND THE FIFTY
PERCENT GUIDELINES.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE WHAT HERE IS THE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE YOU GUYS MAY
RECALL THIS I&apos;M NOT SURE
EXACTLY WHEN THE APPLICATION
WAS RUN BUT IT&apos;S PRETTY RECENT
MAYBE CAN YOU TELL US WHEN IT&apos;S
HIS TURN TO TALK?
THIS IS FINISHED SPACE UP HERE
DOWN HERE IS A IS A SCREEN
PORCH THAT&apos;S BASICALLY A GROUND
LEVEL SCREEN PORCH.
IT&apos;S GOT A DOOR ON THIS SIDE BY
THE DRIVEWAY.
HERE&apos;S SOME MORE PHOTOS.
IT&apos;S GOT SCREEN WINDOWS ON THE
BACK AND THEN THERE&apos;S A LITTLE
VESTIBULE ON THE SIDE HERE WITH
ANOTHER DOOR GOING OUT INTO THE
BACKYARD.
THE APPLICATION IS TO BASICALLY
THESE ARE THE ORIGINAL DRAWINGS
THAT WERE APPROVED BY THE
COMMISSION IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN
.
THE PROPOSAL IS TO BASICALLY
GLASS IN THE OPENINGS THAT ARE
CURRENTLY SCREENED.
SO WE&apos;VE GOT TWO PAIRS
OF WINDOWS HERE.
WE&apos;VE GOT THREE ACROSS THE
BACK.
IT&apos;S SORT OF AN AWKWARD OPENING
SIZE IT LOOKS LIKE SO THEY&apos;VE
PUT A LARGER THAN USUAL SORT
OF MILLION IN BETWEEN THERE AND
THEN WE&apos;VE GOT THREE WINDOWS ON
THE BACK HERE NEAR THE EXISTING
BACK DOOR.
THIS IS THE EXTENT OF THE
EXTERIOR.
THERE&apos;S PROBABLY MORE THAT
THEY&apos;LL HAVE TO DO FROM THE
INTERIOR.
BUT THESE ARE MARVIN
ESSENTIALS.
I BELIEVE THAT IT&apos;S A CLAD
WINDOW.
THEY HAVE SCREENS AND THEY HAVE
SCREENS THAT GO WITH THEM.
IT&apos;S REALLY, REALLY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
&gt;&gt; THE SORRY I JUST POPPED OUT
OF IT BY MISTAKE.
THE INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT
APPLY I&apos;VE ALREADY READ TO OUR
NUMBERS ONE TO NINE AND 10 AND
REALLY MOST OF THE BUILDING AND
ADMISSION GUIDELINES TALK ABOUT
ADDITIONS AND ADDING MORE FLOOR
AREA.
THIS IS ALREADY LIMITED BY THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE AND IT&apos;S
CERTAINLY INCONSPICUOUS AND AND
APPROPRIATE SIZE.
SO STAFF DOES THINK IT MEETS
ALL OF THE GUIDELINES AND
STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONERS WILSON KIYONO
WILL YOU GIVE US YOUR REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT?
SURE.
YEAH IT WAS TRYING TO FIND ONE
OF THE PHOTOS BUT IT&apos;S PRETTY
DEEP IN THE FRONT YARD AND EVEN
DEEPER DRIVEWAY THAT WOULD LEAD
YOU TO THIS PORTION OF A
PROPERTY THAT&apos;S THE WORK IS
PROPOSED ON AND EVEN THEN THE
THE WAY THAT THE EXISTING
SCREEN PORCHES DETAILED AND
BUILT THE CORNER THAT MAYBE YOU
WOULD CATCH A GLIMPSE OF FROM
THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY IS
RELATIVELY SOLID ALREADY.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK THERE WOULD BE
A CHANGE IN THE PUBLIC&apos;S
PERCEPTION OF THAT PART OF THE
PROPERTY AND THAT&apos;S IN ADDITION
ANYWAY, CORRECT?
YEP.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK THERE&apos;D BE ANY
DETRACTION FROM ORIGINAL
MATERIAL.
MR. MATERIALS?
I AGREE 100 PERCENT WITH THE
APPLICANT.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE, I NEED YOUR
MICROPHONE AND YOUR VIDEOS
ALREADY AND IF YOU STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
AND YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORTER REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT, PLEASE DO SO HELLO.
JUST ENCOURAGE ANY REMODELING
WOULD YOU SAY ADDRESS TO YES.
PROJECT YOUR COMPANY UM COMPANY
MICHAEL JACKSON PLAZA SUITE
EIGHTY FIVE AN HOUR BEFORE
LITTLE THREE.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE
TO ADD TO THE STAFF REPORT.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW IT&apos;S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
YOU GUYS HAVE A QUESTION FOR
ME.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS COMMISSIONERS&apos; MR.
RACKLEY ARE YOU HI JUSTIN.
ARE ARE YOU LEAVING THE LRUS
THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
NOW WHERE THE SKIRT IS OR ARE
YOU MAKING A CHANGE TO THE
SKIRT?
&gt;&gt; WE WILL BE GOING IN DENHA
QUESTIONS WILL NOT OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE THIS
ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSON TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE APPLICATION
AT TWO ELEVEN CRESTA AVENUE.
IF YOU HAVE IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEAK PLEASE ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND BY PRESSING
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
DON&apos;T BELIEVE WE HAVE ANY
COLORS INDICATING OK WE&apos;LL
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS APPLICATION?
I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO IF YOU COULD
GIVE ME HER HARD COPY THE
MISSIONER FOR I OK WITH THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWO ONE ONE
CRESTA AVENUE A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ENCLOSE
THE SCREEN PORCH ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS CERCA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WHITE SAYS ANY
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
ALL
WILL GO AHEAD AND MOVE TO A
VOTE.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES, YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
RIGHT THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANKS JASON.
RIGHT WE ARE THROUGH ALL THE
HEARINGS AND ON TO ITEM G NEW
BUSINESS.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE ANY NEW
BUSINESS THIS MONTH WE DO NOT
ITEM APPROVAL OF MINUTES WE
RECEIVED THE MAY TWELVE MINUTES
THAT EVERYONE HAD A CHANCE TO
REVIEW THOSE.
&gt;&gt; EVERYTHING&apos;S GOOD RIGHT?
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED FOR JUDGE JACKSON.
THANK APPRECIATE IT.
&gt;&gt; ON TO ITEM MY REPORT FROM
COMMISSIONERS&apos;.
IS THERE ANY REPORTS FROM ANY
COMMISSION GOOD ITEM J
ASSIGNMENTS FOR THE MONDAY JULY
11TH REVIEW COMMITTEE AT 5:00
P.M. FOR THE THURSDAY JULY 14TH
MEETING ANY VOLUNTEERS
DISAPPEARED FROM ALL RIGHT.
JESSICA CAN&apos;T DO IT.
DAVID CANNOT DO IT.
I&apos;M OUT.
YEAH, I CAN DO IT.
&gt;&gt; KATHY IS HE&apos;S ON BOARD
MIDDLE OF THE ROAD.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;LL DO IT AGAIN.
OK, THANK YOU GOD.
KATHY AND BEVERLY TEST.
ALL RIGHT SO ON TO ITEM KAY
REPORT ON STAFF.
&gt;&gt; WE DID NOT HAVE ANY NO
REPORTS.
WAS THERE ANY ACTIVITY ON THERE
PROBABLY WAS BUT I WAS OUT FOR
THREE WEEKS OF IT SO I HAVEN&apos;T
QUITE CAUGHT THAT YET.
I WAS JUST CURIOUS ONTO ANIMAL
CONCERNS HER CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS IS THERE ANY
CONCERNS COMMISSIONER WOULD
LIKE TO SHARE SOME NOT A
CONCERN.
I MEAN WE MISSED JILL ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE TOUR BUT
MEETING JEFF ANOTHER PLAN IT
WAS WONDERFUL.
YOU KNOW, HE LED A VERY GOOD
THANK YOU.
I&apos;LL TELL HIM YOU SAID SO RIGHT
ON THE COMMUNICATIONS I HAVE
BEEN IN NO COMMUNICATION AND
I&apos;M IN ADJOURNMENT.
I NOW ADJOURNED THE JUNE 9TH
AND OUR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE